SIMPLE SUMMARY: Leishmaniosis caused by Leishmania infantum is a parasitic disease of people and animals transmitted by sand fly vectors. Although dogs in south and central Italy are most affected, in recent decades feline leishmaniosis (FeL) has become an emerging disease. This study aimed to update information on the presence of FeL in stray cats in Milan, in northern Italy; to compare these results with previous studies performed in the same area; and to report aspects of Leishmania infection in cats. A total of 117 stray cats were included and 10 (8.6%) had L. infantum infection. The parasite was identified in popliteal lymph nodes in five cats and five had antibodies against L. infantum. Most infected cats were from a specific area of Milan. Increased gammaglobulins were seen in infected cats, which also had antibodies against the pathogens Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Chlamydophila felis, and Toxoplasma gondii. There was a high prevalence of FeL in the surveyed area of northern Italy. Further studies are needed to understand if these infected cats are being imported from other areas, or if there is a real Leishmania focus in Milan. Investigation of the presence of sand fly vectors in Milan would be useful. ABSTRACT: Feline leishmaniosis (FeL) is an emerging vector-borne feline disease, with increasing numbers of cases reported and studies performed internationally. This study aimed to update the epidemiological status for FeL in stray cats in Milan, northern Italy; compare these results with previous studies in Northern Italy; and report clinicopathologic findings and coinfections in cats infected with Leishmania spp. A total of 117 cats were tested for L. infantum and retrovirus infection, hematological, and biochemical parameters. Demographic and clinical data were collected and FeL affected cats screened for selected coinfections. Overall, 10/117 (8.6%) cats tested positive for L. infantum: in five cats L. infantum DNA was found in popliteal lymph nodes and five were IFAT seropositive at titers from 1:80 to 1:160. Infected cats were concentrated in a specific area of Milan (p = 0.0154). No specific clinicopathologic abnormalities or retroviral infections were significantly linked to the infection, other than hypergammaglobulinemia (p = 0.0127). Seroreactivity to Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Chlamydophila felis, and Toxoplasma gondii was found in some infected cats. A high prevalence of FeL was found in a non-endemic area of northern Italy and future studies should continually monitor this data to understand whether these cases are imported or if Leishmania vectors are present in this area.