PURPOSE With the increased incidence of low stage renal cancers, thermal ablation technology has emerged as a viable treatment option. Current AUA (American Urological Association) guidelines include thermal ablation as a treatment modality for select individuals. We compared the laparoscopic and percutaneous approach for the radio frequency ablation of renal tumors under the guidance of urological surgeons. MATERIALS AND METHODS We reviewed our radio frequency ablation database of patients with renal masses undergoing laparoscopic or computerized tomography guided percutaneous radio frequency ablation with simultaneous peripheral fiberoptic thermometry from November 2001 to January 2011 at a single tertiary care center. Data were collected on patient demographics, and surgical and clinicopathological outcomes stratified by approach. RESULTS A total of 298 patients with 316 renal tumors underwent laparoscopic (122 tumors) or computerized tomography guided (194 tumors) radio frequency ablation. There were no statistically significant differences between the laparoscopic and computerized tomography guided radio frequency ablation groups with respect to patient demographics, complication rates and renal functional outcomes (p>0.05). The 3-year Kaplan-Meier estimation of radiographic recurrence-free probability was 95% for computerized tomography guided radio frequency ablation and 94% for laparoscopic radio frequency ablation (p=0.84). Subanalysis of the 212 (67%) renal cell carcinoma tumors showed a 3-year Kaplan-Meier estimation of oncologic recurrence-free probability (post-ablation biopsy proven viable tumor) of 94% for computerized tomography guided radio frequency ablation and 100% for laparoscopic radio frequency ablation (p=0.16). Median followup was 21 months for laparoscopic radio frequency ablation) and 19 months for computerized tomography guided radio frequency ablation. CONCLUSIONS Laparoscopic and computerized tomography guided radio frequency ablation appear safe and effective with statistically equivalent rates of complications and recurrence.