Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome COVID-19 was declared as a pandemic on 11(th) March 2020 by the World Health Organization and consequent lockdown imposed in several areas resulted in a marked reduction in orthopaedic practice. Although some guidelines for patient care in orthopaedic practice have been published, overall, publications focusing exclusively on guidelines on starting orthopaedic outpatient departments (OPD) after the COVID-19 lockdown amidst the on-going pandemic are lacking. We hereby propose the evolving knowledge in changes in OPD management practices for orthopaedic surgeons in the COVID- 19 era. The emphasis on online registration (e-registration) should be given impetus and become the new norm supplemented by telephonic and spot registration for the uneducated patients. The review highlights the safety of patient and orthopaedic surgeons in OPD by screening and maintaining hygiene at various levels. The article also mentions the duties of the help desk, OPD hall supervisor and the new norms of Air Conditioning, ventilation, safe use of elevators, sanitization of OPD premises and biomedical waste disposal. The optimum and safe utilization of human & material resources, DO's and DON'Ts for patients & health staff have also been proposed. The reorganization of plaster room, the precaution during plastering, fracture clinic, dressing and injection room services are discussed as per evolving guidelines. This article will give deep insight into the OPD plan &telemedicine graphically also. The authors suggest updating and downward permeation of existing e-infrastructure of government health services that is up-gradation of existing tertiary level online registration services, a paperless model of OPD Consultation & dispensation. The future updating of Aarogya Setu App (https://mygov.in/aarogya-setu-app/). for convenient online OPD registration and dispensation has been discussed and proposed. This review will help in containing the spread of COVID 19 and build upon the health gains achieved after lockdown. The easy concept of CCCATTT has been introduced, and the OPD Plan has also been suggested. We have endeavoured to holistically detail an orthopaedic OPD setup and its upkeep in COVID-19 pandemic, but since the knowledge of COVID 19 is ever-evolving it needs replenishment by regular education for health staff.