AIMS: To investigate the willingness of Chinese nurses to practice in Hubei combating the coronavirus disease 2019 and to explore the associated factors. DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey. METHODS: Clinical nurses were conveniently recruited by an online link in three provinces out of Hubei, including Hunan (Central south), Chongqing (Southwest) and Xinjiang (Northwest) during 4-10 February 2020. A structured questionnaire was distributed by an online investigation system. Information on sociodemographic characteristics, willingness, possible influencing factors (previous experience, health status, training conditions, perceptions on volunteering to practice in Hubei, family attitude, and insurance) was collected. Binary logistic regression was conducted to explore the association of different factors with the willingness decision of nurses. RESULTS: A total of 11,183 nurses participated in this survey and a high proportion of them were willing to volunteer to practice in Hubei combating the epidemic. Nurses who were likely to volunteer had the following characteristics: younger, unmarried, members of the Communist Party of China, with senior professional qualification, working in critical care departments, with support from their families, with adequate training and learning, with good health status and low levels of anxiety. The regression model could explain 31.1% of the variances of the willingness decision of nurses. CONCLUSIONS: A high proportion of nurses in China were willing to practice in Hubei during the coronavirus disease 2019 epidemic. Adequate training and psychological support would facilitate nurses to volunteer during the outbreak of an infectious disease. IMPACT: The study identified a high proportion of nurses in China were willing to practice in Hubei combating the coronavirus disease 2019 epidemic. The findings will provide valuable references for nurses and decision makers to formulate better plans for increasing nursing workforce during such kind of public health crisis.