The first description of dermatophytosis was recorded by Celsus, a Roman encyclopaedist who described a suppurative infection of scalp (‘porrigo’ or ‘kerion of Celsus’) in De Re Medicina (30 A.D.). Throughout the middle ages, several descriptions of dermatophytosis were produced where it is described as ‘tinea’. The keratin-destroying moths which made circular holes in the woollen garments are known as Tinea. Due to similarity in the structure of circular lesion of dermatophytosis on the smooth skin with the circular hole made by moth, Cassius Felix introduced the term ‘tinea’ to describe the lesions. In 1806, Alibert used the term ‘favus’ to describe the honey-like exudate in some scalp infections. However, the fungal aetiology of tinea was first detected by Robert Remak, a Polish physician who first observed the presence of hyphae in the crusts of favus. This detection is also a landmark in medical history because this is the first description of a microbe causing a human disease. He himself did not publish his work, but he permitted the reference of his observations in a dissertation by Xavier Hube in 1837. Remak gave all the credits of his discovery to his mentor Schoenlein who first published the fungal etiological report of favus in 1839. He observed the infectious nature of the favus by autoinoculation into his own hands and also successfully isolated the fungus later (1945) and named Achorion schoenleinii (Trichophyton schoenleinii) in honour of his mentor. In 1844, Gruby described the etiologic agent of tinea endothrix, later became known as Trichophyton tonsurans. The genus Trichophyton was created and described by Malmsten (1845) with its representative species T. tonsurans. Charles Robin identified T. mentagrophytes in 1847 and T. equinum was identified by Matruchot and Dassonville in 1898. Raymond Jacques Adrien Sabouraud (France) first compiled the description of Trichophyton in his book (Les Teignes) in 1910 which was based on his observation in artificial culture. The sexual state of dermatophyte was described by Nannizzi (1927). Emmons (1934) first reported the classification of dermatophytes based on vegetative structures and conidia. Gentles (1958) established the successful treatment of tinea capitis with griseofulvin.