STUDY OBJECTIVES The maternal postpartum period is characterized by sleep fragmentation, which is associated with daytime impairment, mental health disturbances, and changes in melatonin patterns. In addition to sleep fragmentation, women undergo a complex set of physiological and environmental changes upon entering the postpartum period, confounding our understanding of effects of postpartum sleep disturbance. The primary study aim was to understand the basic impact of a single night of postpartum-like sleep fragmentation on sleep architecture, nocturnal melatonin levels, mood, daytime sleepiness, and neurobehavioral performance. MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS For one week prior to entry into the laboratory, eleven healthy nulliparous women kept a stable sleep-wake schedule (verified via actigraphy). Participants contributed three consecutive nights of laboratory overnight polysomnography: (1) a habituation/sleep disorder screening night; (2) a baseline night; and (3) a sleep fragmentation night, when participants were awakened three times for ~30min each. Self-reported sleep quality and mood (Profile of Mood States survey) both decreased significantly after sleep fragmentation compared to baseline measurements. Unexpectedly, daytime sleepiness (Multiple Sleep Latency Test) decreased significantly after sleep fragmentation. Experimental fragmentation had no significant effect on time spent in nocturnal sleep stages, urinary 6-sulfatoxymelatonin concentration, or psychomotor vigilance test performance. Participants continued to provide actigraphy data, and daily PVTs and self-reported sleep quality assessments at home for one week following sleep fragmentation; these assessments did not differ from baseline values. CONCLUSIONS While there were no changes in measured physiological components of a single night of postpartum-like experimental sleep fragmentation, there were decreases in self-reported measures of mood and sleep quality. Future research should examine the effects of multiple nights of modeling postpartum-like sleep fragmentation on objective measures of sleep and daytime functioning.