BACKGROUND Acute kidney injury requiring dialysis (AKI-D) during hospitalization is associated with both in-hospital and post-discharge mortality. Its incidence has risen over time in Canada and the USA. While the majority of AKI-D will recover to dialysis independence at the time of hospital discharge, 10-30% will transition to outpatient dialysis. The risk factors that determine dialysis independence after AKI-D and its optimal outpatient management remain unclear. Eliciting prognostic predictors of kidney recovery in patients who remain on dialysis after hospital discharge will guide subsequent clinical decision making. The objective of this study is to assess the association between patient- and treatment-related factors with short- and long-term outcomes in patients who remained dialysis-dependent after hospitalization with AKI-D. METHODS A literature search in EMBASE, MEDLINE, and PubMed will be performed based on pre-specified criteria. There are no restrictions on language and publication dates. The supplemental search will include manual scan of bibliographies of eligible studies and grey literature assessment. Pre-specified criteria will be used to select eligible studies. Relevant data will be extracted and quality assessments performed per validated tools. Qualitative data synthesis will be performed to reflect directions of associations. Meta-analysis will be formed if two or more studies with similar prognostic factors, outcomes, and adequate quality are identified. Strength of association will be quantified as odds ratios. Reporting of this review will be guided by recommendations of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statement. DISCUSSION This systematic review aims to synthesize association between modifiable and non-modifiable prognostic factors with renal outcomes in AKI-D patients who remain dialysis-dependent after hospital discharge. Our findings will help inform the development of evidence-based management and guide long-term treatment planning for AKI-D patients. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION PROSPERO registration number CRD42019127394 .