BACKGROUND A ureteroileal anastomosis stricture (UAS) is one of the most frequent complications after radical cystectomy. Open surgical repair is the treatment of choice but is associated with morbidity. OBJECTIVE To describe the efficacy and safety of laparoscopic management for benign secondary UAS. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS A review was performed of the 11 initial procedures performed at our academic center from December 2010 to December 2014, with mean follow-up of 38 mo (range 12-169). Patients included had benign ureteroileal strictures longer than 1cm. SURGICAL PROCEDURE A pure laparoscopic approach was systematically used, involving a two-step procedure for left and a one-step procedure for right ureteral stenosis. MEASUREMENTS Perioperative data were collected and complications were assessed using the Clavien-Dindo grading system. Outcomes and follow-up data were analyzed. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS A descriptive statistical analysis was performed for 11 surgeries in ten patients. The median stricture length was 2.4cm. No conversion to open surgery was required. The mean blood loss was 180ml and the mean hospital stay was 10 d. Early complications included limited lymphorrhea (n=1), limited anastomotic leakage (n=2), and accidental descent of a ureteral catheter (n=1) that was replaced with radiologic intervention. The mean follow-up was 38 mo (range 12-169). No late complications were reported. After 1 yr of follow-up, six patients had good glomerular filtration rates, all patients were asymptomatic, and no stenotic relapses were detected. CONCLUSIONS This laparoscopic technique for the management of benign secondary UAS is feasible, with good results and without long-term complications. This minimally invasive approach reduces the morbidity associated with open surgery while retaining good success rates. PATIENT SUMMARY We describe a novel laparoscopic approach for patients with a ureteroileal anastomosis stricture after radical cystectomy to avoid the complications associated with open surgery. The surgery was found to be viable and safe with good long-term results.