PURPOSE The present study compared standard computed tomography (CT) and histopathological findings after endovascular embolization using a prototype of inherently radiopaque 40μm-microspheres with both standard 40μm-microspheres and iodized oil in a porcine liver model. MATERIALS AND METHODS Twelve pigs were divided into six study groups, of two pigs each. Four pigs were embolized with iodized oil alone and four with radiopaque microspheres; two animals in each group were sacrificed at 2 hours and two at 7 days. Two pigs were embolized with radiopaque microspheres and heparin and sacrificed at 7 days. Two pigs were embolized with standard microspheres and sacrificed at 2 hours. CT was performed before and after segmental embolization and before sacrifice at 7 days. The distribution of embolic agent, inflammatory response and tissue necrosis were assessed histopathologically. RESULTS Radiopaque microspheres and iodized oil were visible on standard CT 2 hours and 7 days after embolization, showing qualitatively comparable arterial and parenchymal enhancement. Quantitatively, the enhancement was more intense for iodized oil. Standard microspheres, delivered without contrast, were not visible by imaging. Radiopaque and standard microspheres similarly occluded subsegmental and interlobular arteries and, to a lesser extent, sinusoids. Iodized oil resulted in the deepest penetration into sinusoids. Necrosis was always observed after embolization with microspheres, but never after embolization with iodized oil. The inflammatory response was mild to moderate for microspheres and moderate to severe for iodized oil. CONCLUSION Radiopaque 40μm-microspheres are visible on standard CT with qualitatively similar but quantitatively less intense enhancement compared to iodized oil, and with a tendency towards less of an inflammatory reaction than iodized oil. These microspheres also result in tissue necrosis, which was not observed after embolization with iodized oil. Both radiopaque and standard 40μm-microspheres are found within subsegmental and interlobar arteries, as well as in hepatic sinusoids.