Background COVID-19 (COronaVIrus Disease 2019) is an infectious respiratory disease caused by the novel SARS-CoV-2 virus. Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDTs) have been developed to detect specific antibodies, IgG and IgM, to SARS-CoV-2 virus in human whole blood and easily usable by the general population are needed in order to alleviate the lockdown that many countries have initiated in response to the growing COVID-19 pandemic. A real-life study has been conducted in order to evaluate the performance of the COVID-PRESTO RDT and the results have been submitted for publication and are currently under review. Even if this test showed very high sensitivity and specificity in a laboratory setting when used by trained professionals, it needs to be further evaluated for practicability when used by common folk in order to be approved by health authorities for in-home use Methods 142 participants were recruited between March 2020 and April 2020 among non-medical populations in central France (nuclear plants workers, individuals attending the Orleans University Hospital vaccination clinic and Orleans University Hospital non-medical staff). Instructions for use with or without a tutorial video was made available to the volunteers. Two separate objectives were pursued: evaluation of the capability of participants to obtain an interpretable result, and evaluation of the users ability to read the results. Results 88.4 % of the test users judged the instruction for use leaflet to be clear and understandable. 99.3 % of the users obtained a valid results and according to the supervisors 92.7% of the tests were properly performed by the user. Overall, 95% of the users gave positive feedback toward the COVID PRESTO as a potential self-test. No influence of age and education was observed. Conclusion COVID-PRESTO was successfully used by an overwhelming majority of participants and its utilization was judged very satisfactory, therefore showing a promising potential as a self-test to be used by the general population. This RDT can become an easy-to-use tool to help know whether individuals are protected or not, particularly in the perspective of a second wave or a mass vaccination program.