Data sources Five electronic databases were searched: COVID-19 Open Research Dataset (CORD-19-2020); PubMed; MEDLINE; Scopus; and Google Scholar.Study selection Titles of articles and abstracts were identified during the electronic database searches and then screened for relevance. Publications up until the date of the literature search, 19th March 2020, were used. All articles with the appropriate topics pertaining to COVID-19, dentistry, orthodontics, and infection control were used irrespective of language. The author did not state whether they were selective about the study type or design of articles screened. References of these articles were also screened, via the 'snowballing technique', to obtain as much relevant literature as possible.Data extraction and synthesis Articles were reviewed by the cited author, and one research assistant. Data was extracted from each study by this author. The data obtained was combined and discussed narratively, in a qualitative manner. Due to the broad scope of studies included, it was not possible to conduct a meta-analysis.Results This literature review describes ways to reduce COVID-19 transmission in orthodontic practice. Overview of the literature discusses how the virus may be transmitted in the orthodontic setting: by human-human contact; saliva; aerosols; and use of orthodontic instruments. The literature review illustrates the need for optimum infection control and strict cleaning, detailing surface disinfection and sterilisation protocols. It highlights the need for optimal hand hygiene, use of high standard personal protective equipment, controlling aerosol use, appropriate ventilation, and treating emergency cases only.Conclusions While there are no known cases of COVID-19 cross-transmission within the dental setting currently reported, utmost vigilance is required by orthodontic professionals to reduce risk of transmission. The review reinforces crucial measures required to reduce infection, as outlined in the Results section above. While the virus is still emerging, knowledge is limited and as such it is difficult to provide robust and complete recommendations for best practice. Further studies to inform future practice are required.