BACKGROUND: mHealth app use is a major concern because of the possible dissemination of misinformation that could harm the users. Particularly, it could be difficult for health care professional to recommend a suitable app for COVID-19 education and self-monitoring purposes. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to analyse and evaluate the contents as well as features of COVID-19 mobile apps. The findings are instrumental in helping healthcare professionals to identify suitable mobile apps for COVID-19 self-monitoring and education. The results of the mobile apps assessment can potentially help mobile app developers improve or modify their existing mobile app designs to achieve optimal outcomes. METHODS: The search for the mobile health apps available in android-based Play Store and iOS-based App Store was conducted between 18 April to 5 May 2020. The region of the App Store where we performed the search on was the United States, while a virtual private network app was used to locate and access COVID-19 mobile apps from all countries on Google Play Store. The inclusion criteria were apps that are related to COVID-19 with no restriction in language type. The basic features assessment criteria used for comparison were the requirement for free subscription, Internet connection, education/advisory content, size of app, ability to export data and automated data entry. The functionality of the apps was assessed according to: (1) knowledge (information on COVID-19), (2) tracing/mapping of COVID-19 cases, (3) home monitoring surveillance, (4) online consultation with a health authority, and (5) official apps run by health authorities. RESULTS: Of 223 COVID-19 related mobile apps, only 56 (35%) found in App Store and 54 (85.7%) in Play Store matched the inclusion criteria. In the basic features assessment, most App Store (33.3%) and Play Store (35.7%) apps scored 4 out of 7 points. Meanwhile, the outcome of the functionality assessment for most App Store apps (43.3%) was a score of 3, compared to android-based apps (35.7%), which scored 2 (out of maximum point 5). Evaluation of basic functions showed that 88% of included mobile apps do not require subscription, 62% provide symptom advice, and 45% have educational content. In term of the specific functions, more than half of the included mobile apps are official mobile apps maintained by a health authority for COVID-19 information provision. Around 40% and 31% of the mobile apps have tracing/mapping and home monitoring surveillance functions, respectively, with only 17% of mobile apps equipped with an online consultation function. CONCLUSIONS: Most iOS-based apps incorporate infographic mapping of COVID-19 cases while most android-based apps incorporate home-monitoring surveillance features, instead of providing focused educational content on COVID-19. It is important to evaluate the contents and features of COVID-19 mobile apps to guide users in choosing the suitable mobile app based on their requirements.