OBJECTIVE The Woven EndoBridge (WEB) is an innovative new technique for securing cerebral aneurysms. It is designed particularly for wide-necked bifurcation aneurysms that otherwise would be difficult to treat. There is a paucity of follow-up data in the literature due to the novelty of this technique. The authors reviewed their data from cases involving patients treated at Leeds General Infirmary with the WEB device. They assessed the safety and complication risk associated with the device and clinical and radiological follow-up outcomes in their patients. This is, to their knowledge, the first publication to include the new single-layer sphere device (WEB SLS) in addition to the original dual-layer (WEB DL) and the (nonsphere) single-layer (WEB SL) devices. METHODS Data from 22 patients who underwent 25 WEB treatments were analyzed. Of the 25 WEB procedures, 3 were performed on an acute basis, 1 was performed on a semiacute basis, and the remaining 21 were elective. A novel 6-point scoring system called the Leeds WEB aneurysm occlusion scale was created to ensure accurate assessment based on the morphology of the WEB device. Outcome was assessed at follow-up by MR angiography with or without digital subtraction angiography and the modified Rankin Scale (mRS). RESULTS Deployment of the WEB device was successful in 22 (88%) of 25 procedures; 3 (12%) of the attempts at WEB treatment were abandoned. One of the patients in whom treatment was abandoned underwent a successful second attempt. Immediately after the 22 procedures with successful deployment, 4 (18%) of the patients had a complete occlusion of the aneurysm and WEB device; 10 (45%) had varying degrees of occlusion within the WEB device but no aneurysm neck or remnant; 3 (14%) had a neck remnant; and 5 (23%) had an aneurysm remnant. Of the patients with an aneurysm remnant, 1 had a complete aneurysm occlusion at ≥ 3-months follow-up. In total, 6 (27%) patients had a residual aneurysm at ≥ 3-months radiological follow-up. One of these patients was admitted with hydrocephalus secondary to a recurrent aneurysm and later received a second WEB treatment with additional coiling. Only 1 patient developed new neurological symptoms. This patient went from an mRS score of 0 to a score of 1 and had radiological evidence of a thromboembolic event. Two patients showed radiological evidence of a new thromboembolic event on follow-up MRI but were clinically asymptomatic. CONCLUSIONS The WEB has shown itself to be a promising new device with the potential to increase the scope of treatment for difficult wide-necked bifurcation aneurysms. The technique is safe, and short-term results show effective occlusion of complex aneurysms with minimal complications associated with the procedure. Long-term efficacy, however, still needs to be assessed.