Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a host RNA control pathway that removes aberrant transcripts with long 3’ untranslated regions (UTRs) due to premature termination codons (PTCs) that arise through mutation or defective splicing. To maximize coding potential, RNA viruses often contain internally located stop codons that should also be prime targets for NMD. Using an agroinfiltration-based NMD assay in Nicotiana benthamiana, we identified two segments conferring NMD-resistance in the carmovirus Turnip crinkle virus (TCV) genome. The ribosome readthrough structure just downstream of the TCV p28 termination codon stabilized an NMD-sensitive reporter as did a frameshifting element from umbravirus Pea enation mosaic virus. In addition, a 51-nt unstructured region (USR) at the beginning of the TCV 3’ UTR increased NMD-resistance 3-fold when inserted into an unrelated NMD-sensitive 3’ UTR. Several additional carmovirus 3’ UTRs also conferred varying levels of NMD resistance depending on the construct despite no sequence similarity in the analogous region. Instead, these regions displayed a marked lack of RNA structure immediately following the NMD-targeted stop codon. NMD-resistance was only slightly reduced by conversion of 19 pyrimidines in the USR to purines, but resistance was abolished when a 2-nt mutation was introduced downstream of the USR that substantially increased the secondary structure in the USR through formation of a stable hairpin. The same 2-nt mutation also enhanced the NMD susceptibility of a subgenomic RNA expressed independently of the genomic RNA. The conserved lack of RNA structure among most carmoviruses at the 5’ end of their 3’ UTR could serve to enhance subgenomic RNA stability, which would increase expression of the encoded capsid protein that also functions as the RNA silencing suppressor. These results demonstrate that the TCV genome has features that are inherently NMD-resistant and these strategies could be widespread among RNA viruses and NMD-resistant host mRNAs with long 3’ UTRs.