The outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) poses a huge threat to many countries around the world. However, where is it origin and which animals are sensitive to cross-species transmission is unclear. The interaction of virus and cell receptor is a key determinant of host range for the novel coronavirus. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is demonstrated as the primary entry receptor for SARS-CoV-2. In this study, we evaluated the SARS-CoV-2 entry mediated by ACE2 of 11 different species of animals, and discovered that ACE2 of Rhinolophus sinicus (Chinese horseshoe bat), Felis catus (domestic cat), Canis lupus familiaris (dog), Sus scrofa (pig), Capra hircus (goat) and especially Manis javanica (Malayan pangolin) were able to render SARS-CoV-2 entry in non-susceptible cells. This is the first report that ACE2 of Pangolin could mediate SARS-CoV-2 entry which increases the presume that SARS-CoV-2 may have a pangolin origin. However, none of the ACE2 proteins from Rhinolophus ferrumequinum (greater horseshoe bat), Gallus gallus (chicken), Notechis scutatus (mainland tiger snake), Mus musculus (house mouse) rendered SARS-CoV-2 entry. Specifically, a natural isoform of Macaca mulatta (Rhesus monkey) ACE2 with a mutation of Y217N was resistance to infection, which rises the possible impact of this type of ACE2 during monkey studies of SARS-CoV-2. Overall, these results clarify that SARS-CoV-2 could engage receptors of multiple species of animals and it is a perplexed work to track SARS-CoV-2 origin and its intermediate hosts. IMPORTANCE In this study, we illustrated that SARS-CoV-2 is able to engage receptors of multiple species of animals. This indicated that it may be a perplexed work to track SARS-CoV-2 origin and discover its intermediate hosts. This feature of virus is considered to potentiate its diverse cross-species transmissibility. Of note, here is the first report that ACE2 of Pangolin could mediate SARS-CoV-2 entry which increases the possibility that SARS-CoV-2 may have a pangolin origin. And we also demonstrated that not all species of bat were sensitive to SARS-CoV-2 infection. At last, it is also important to detect the expression ratio of the Y217N ACE2 to the prototype in Rhesus monkeys to be recruited for studies on SARS-CoV-2 infection.