The aim of the present study was to investigate whether TIPE2 participates in the protective actions of dexmedetomidine (DEX) in a mouse model of sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI). We administered TIPE2 adeno-associated virus (AAV-TIPE2) intratracheally into the lungs of mice. Control mice were infected with an adeno-associated virus expressing no transgene. Three weeks later, an animal model of caecal ligation-perforation (CLP)-induced sepsis was established. DEX was administered intravenously 30 min after CLP. Twenty-four hours after sepsis, lung injury was assayed by lung histology, the ratio of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) to total cells in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, BALF protein content and the lung wet-to-dry (W/D) weight ratio. Proinflammatory factor levels in the BALF of mice were measured. The protein expression levels in lung tissues were analysed by Western blotting. The results showed that DEX treatment markedly mitigated sepsis-induced lung injury, which was characterized by the deterioration of histopathology, histologic scores, the W/D weight ratio and total protein levels in the BALF. Moreover, DEX markedly attenuated sepsis-induced lung inflammation, as evidenced by the decrease in the number of PMNs in the BALF, lung MPO activity and proinflammatory cytokines in the BALF. In addition, DEX dramatically prevented sepsis-induced pulmonary cell apoptosis in mice, as reflected by decreases in the number of TUNEL-positive cells, the protein expression of cleaved caspase-9 and cleaved caspase 3 and the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. In addition, evaluation of protein expression showed that DEX blocked sepsis-activated JNK phosphorylation and NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Similar results were also observed in the TIPE2 overexpression group. Our study demonstrated that DEX inhibits acute inflammation and apoptosis in a murine model of sepsis-stimulated ALI via the upregulation of TIPE2 and the suppression of the activation of the NF-κB and JNK signalling pathways.