BACKGROUND The migration of Caribbean nurses, particularly to developed countries such as Canada, the United States, and the United Kingdom, remains a matter of concern for most countries of the region. With nursing vacancy rates averaging 40%, individual countries and the region collectively are challenged to address this issue through the development and implementation of sustainable, feasible strategies. The aim of this scoping review is to examine the amount, type, sources, distribution, and focus of the conceptual and empirical literature on the migration of Caribbean nurses, and to identify gaps in the literature. METHODS Identified records were selected and reviewed using Arksey and O'Malley's scoping framework. A comprehensive search was conducted of eight electronic databases and the Google search engine. Findings were summarized numerically and thematically, with themes emerging through an iterative, inductive process. RESULTS Much of the literature included in our study (N = 6, 33%) originated in the United States. Publications steadily increased between 2003 and 2016, and half of them (N = 9) were journal articles. Many (N = 6, 33%) of the records used quantitative methods. The themes identified were as follows: (1) migration patterns and trends; (2) post-migration experiences; (3) past and present, policies, programs, and practices; and (4) consequences of migration to donor countries. More than half (N = 11, 56%) of the literature addressed nurse migration policies, programs, or practices, either solely or in part. Several gaps were identified including the need for evaluation of the effectiveness of current nurse migration management strategies and to study policies, trends, and impacts in understudied Caribbean countries. CONCLUSION This review demonstrates the need for future research in key areas such as the impact of nurse migration on health systems and population health. The literature tends to focus on Caribbean countries with higher levels of nurse migration. However, data regarding this phenomenon in other Caribbean countries is needed for a more comprehensive understanding of the plight of the Caribbean region and would answer the call from the International Organization for Migration to study policies, trends, and impacts in understudied Caribbean countries.