BACKGROUND: Healthcare workers fighting against the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic are under tremendous pressure, which puts them at an increased risk of developing psychological problems. AIMS: This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of psychological problems in different healthcare workers (ie, physicians, medical residents, nurses, technicians and public health professionals) during the COVID-19 pandemic in China and explore factors that are associated with the onset of psychological problems in this population during this public health crisis. METHODS: A cross-sectional, web-based survey was conducted in February 2020 among healthcare workers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Psychological problems were assessed using the Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale, Patient Health Questionnaire and Insomnia Severity Index. Logistic regression analyses were used to explore the factors that were associated with psychological problems. RESULTS: The prevalence of symptoms of anxiety, depression, insomnia and the overall psychological problems in healthcare workers during the COVID-19 pandemic in China was 46.04%, 44.37%, 28.75% and 56.59%, respectively. The prevalence of the overall psychological problems in physicians, medical residents, nurses, technicians and public health professionals was 60.35%, 50.82%, 62.02%, 57.54% and 62.40%, respectively. Compared with healthcare workers who did not participate in front-line work, front-line healthcare workers had a higher risk of anxiety, insomnia and overall psychological problems. In addition, attention to negative or neutral information about the pandemic, receiving negative feedback from families and friends who joined front-line work, and unwillingness to join front-line work if given a free choice were three major factors for these psychological problems. CONCLUSIONS: Psychological problems are pervasive among healthcare workers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Receiving negative information and participating in front-line work appear to be important risk factors for psychological problems. The psychological health of different healthcare workers should be protected during the COVID-19 pandemic with timely interventions and proper information feedback.