While pneumoperitoneum causes negative macrohaemodynamic effects, much less is known about microcirculatory effects of different anaesthetic techniques and laparoscopy. Therefore, we aimed to explore microcirculatory effects of combined spinal-general anaesthesia and laparoscopy, as measured by near-infrared spectroscopy over forearm and calf muscles utilising a 3-min ischemic challenge. Patients (n = 102) undergoing elective laparoscopic gynaecological surgery were randomised to receive general anaesthesia alone or in combination with high-dose or low-dose spinal analgesia (levobupivacaine 7.5 mg or 3.75 mg, respectively, plus sufentanil 2.5 μg). Primary outcomes were near-infrared spectroscopy derived parameters before general anaesthesia induction, 5 min after tracheal intubation, and 15 min after pneumoperitoneum commencement. General anaesthesia resulted in impaired post-ischaemic recovery rate in the forearm (p < 0.001, within all groups), which improved during laparoscopy. For the calf, before general anaesthesia induction, high and low dose spinal analgesia significantly slowed the post-ischaemic recovery compared to control (34 ± 16% min-1 and 36 ± 13% min-1 vs. 52 ± 27% min-1, respectively; p = 0.002 and p = 0.006). General anaesthesia abolished differences between the groups (24 ± 14% min-1 and 25 ± 12% min-1 vs. 27 ± 18% min-1), while during laparoscopy high-dose spinal analgesia further reduced the post-ischaemic recovery compared to low-dose spinal and control groups (p = 0.023 and p = 0.040, respectively). During gynaecological laparoscopy patients show impaired calf but maintain forearm microcirculatory function, regardless of the anaesthetic technique. Reduction in post-ischaemic recovery with high-dose spinal analgesia is explained by its sympatholytic effects: number of perfused capillaries is increased, leading to a haemodynamically more favourable state. Blood pressure is positively correlated with the post-ischaemic recovery rate in vascular beds not affected by spinal analgesia.