The objectives of the present study are to describe the clinics view of acute infectious gastroenteritis (GE) at the community, in primary and secondary attention health centers, with special references to viral aetiology (VIGE); to correlate with drinkable water and excrete treatment; to develop for the first time a fast diagnostic using electron microscopy in Río Cuarto, Córdoba, Argentina, considering the university and community collaboration in the viral diagnostic. It has been during one year, 122 cases of acute GE, over its clinics epidemiology and diagnostic aspects (1999-2000). With conventional laboratory methods, it has been determined the bacteria and micotic aetiology (NOVIGE); the virology diagnostic with electron microscopy; and the use of the statistics for the data analysis. The microbial findings has been: pathogenics bacteria (31.7%), fungus (17%), parasites (1.2%), rotavirus (16.4%), calicivirus (1.6%), adenovirus and coronavirus (1.6%). The clinics findings are presents like digestive and extra-digestive signs, separated in NOVIGE (and no-diagnosticated) and VIGE groups. The seasonal viral and no-viral distributions are present in fig. 5. There are statistics signification: the NOVIGE in summer period (49%) against the VIGE (12.5%) (p < 0.0003); the VIGE in winter period (87.5%) against the VIGE in summer period (12.5%) (p < 0.0003); the GE aetiology (VIGE and NOVIGE) in associated with age groups (p < 0.0003); the vomits preceding diarrhoea in VIGE was 58% and in NOVIGE (19.5%) (P < 0.001). It has been presented without significative differences all the clinics signs and laboratory examinations; the breeding signs for the younger 2 years group compared with the 2 years older; the age correlation (< and > 2 years) and season (winter-summer) with the 16% for the first in VIGE (62.5% rotavirus); the absence of health systems at the NOVIGE (70%) and with both (29%); and others epidemiology considerations of the sequence. With came to conclusion that in our city: 1. there are VIGE with signficative participation of rotavirus; 2. its distribution are winter and age group, also considering the other age groups and virosis; 3. the NOVIGE may difference at the clinic sign like vomit, between all the possible sintomatology; 4. the principal cause of diarrhoea and the no seasonal distribution are the NOVIGE; 5. there are not a strong relationship of diarrhoea by shortage environmental health in this study; 6. it's possible in Río Cuarto to made a fast and direct virology diagnostic using an electron microscopy.