INTRODUCTION The goal of modern laparoscopic hernia repair is to achieve a high standard of patient safety with a low threshold of hernia recurrence and chronic inguinal pain. In the absence of fixating devices and the use of the self-gripping Parietene and Parietex ProGrip mesh (Covidien AG, Zurich, Switzerland) was evaluated in this prospective clinical study. The incidence of chronic pain, postoperative complications, patient satisfaction, and hernia recurrence at follow-up after 12 and 24 months was recorded. METHODS Data were collected retrospectively from patient files and were analyzed for 405 male and female patients with 483 primary inguinal hernias. All patients included had undergone surgical repair for inguinal hernia by the laparoscopic transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) approach using Parietex ProGrip meshes performed in the same clinical center in Germany. Pre-, peri-, and postoperative data were collected and a follow-up after 12 and 24 months was performed prospectively. Complications, pain scored on a 0 to 10 NRS scale, patient satisfaction, and hernia recurrence were assessed. RESULTS The only complications were minor and were postoperative: hematoma/seroma (nine cases), secondary hemorrhage through the trocar's site (eight cases), hematuria, emphysema in the inguinal regions (both sides), and swelling above the genital organs (one case for each). Two patients had to be reoperated due to a hematoma in inguinal canal. At mean follow-up at 22.8 months, there were only eight reports of hernia recurrence: 1.9% of the hernias. Most patients (94.9%) were satisfied or very satisfied with their hernia repair with only 1.2% reporting severe pain (NRS score 7 to 10) and 3.6% reported mild pain. CONCLUSION This study demonstrates that, in experienced hands, inguinal hernia repair surgery performed by laparoscopic transabdominal preperitoneal hernioplasty using Parietene and Parietex ProGrip self-gripping meshes is rapid, efficient, and safe with low pain and low hernia recurrence rate. Since no fixating device or glue is necessary for the procedure, additional cost-effectiveness is achieved.