BACKGROUND An efficient public health workforce is necessary for improving and maintaining the health of population and such a workforce can be prepared through proper educational programs and trainings. OBJECTIVES The present study aims to investigate the needs in the public health education programs, as well as need and availability of competent public health workforce in labour market of Saudi Arabia. METHODS A descriptive, cross-sectional survey was administered in two phases in the college of Health Sciences at the Saudi Electronic University (SEU). The first phase was carried out between September 2015 and December 2015, which involved interview with administrative heads of four health-related organizations. The second phase was performed in September 2017 and June 2018 after starting an undergraduate course in public health at the university. A total of 41 faculty and 408 students from different branches of SEU participated in the online survey. RESULTS According to administrative head of public health-related organization, there is a shortage of qualified workforce in public health. All the four organizations need workforce with the master degree in sub-speciality epidemiology. About 97.5% students agreed there is a shortage of public health speciality in these organizations. About 92.7% faculty had an opinion that there is a requirement to set-up educational programs in public health. To overcome the shortage of competent workforce, two organizations showed interest in updating their employees' skill through bridging courses. The students perceiving bachelor course in public health showed interest to accomplish master's degree in epidemiology (38.5%), public health education and promotion (36.5%) and infection control (35.5%). CONCLUSION There is a shortage of expertise in the public health organizations and there is a need for development of more public health schools in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The establishment of public health courses especially in the field of epidemiology at undergraduate and graduate level will help in the development of efficient and competent public health workforce.