Introduction The novel Coronavirus disease has had significant impact on healthcare globally. Knowledge of this virus is evolving, definitive care is not yet known, and mortality is increasing. We assessed its initial impact on paediatric surgical practice in Nigeria, creating a benchmark for recommendations and future reference. Methods Survey of 120 paediatric surgeons from 50 centres to assess socio-demographics and specific domains of impact of COVID-19 on their services and training in Nigeria. Seventy four surgeons adequately responded. Responses have been analysed. Duplicate submissions for centres were excluded by combining and averaging the responses from centres with multiple respondents. Results Forty-six (92%) centres had suspended elective surgeries. All centres continued emergency surgeries but volume reduced in March by 31%. Eleven (22%) centres reported 13 suspended elective cases presenting as emergencies in March, accounting for 3% of total emergency surgeries. Nine (18%) centres adopted new modalities for managing selected surgical conditions: non-operative reduction of intussusception in 1(2%), antibiotic management of uncomplicated acute appendicitis in 5(10%), more conservative management of trauma and replacement of laparoscopic appendectomy with open surgery in 3(6%) respectively. Low perception of adequacy of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) was reported in 35(70%) centres. Forty (80%) centres did not offer telemedicine for patients follow up. Twenty-nine (58%) centres had suspended academic training. Perception of safety to operate was low in 37(50%) respondents, indifferent in 24% and high in 26%. Conclusion Majority of paediatric surgical centres reported cessation of elective surgeries whilst continuing emergencies. There is however an acute decline in the volume of emergency surgeries. Adequate PPE need to be provided and preparations towards handling backlog of elective surgeries once the pandemic recedes. Further study is planned to more conclusively understand the full impact of this pandemic on children's surgery. Key words pandemic, COVID-19, children's surgery.