Seasonal influenza can be a self-limiting illness in healthy individuals but is associated with short-term morbidity and economic burden. Influenza can cause significant morbidity and mortality in young children, the elderly, pregnant and post-partum women, patients with co-morbidities and the immunocompromised. Neuraminidase inhibitors (NAIs) are the treatment of choice for influenza due to widespread resistance to the adamantanes. NAIs are efficacious for the treatment of influenza in ambulatory patients with mild illness, when initiated within 48 h of symptom onset. Early treatment with NAIs has been shown to reduce otitis media in children, and lower respiratory tract complications, resulting in antibiotic therapy, in adults. Evidence on the efficacy of NAIs for the prevention of influenza-related complications in at-risk populations, based on reviews of data from randomised trials is inconclusive. However, observational studies suggest that in hospitalised patients early treatment with NAIs has been associated with reduced mortality. NAIs should be initiated as soon as possible in patients at high-risk of influenza-related complications, with suspected or proven influenza, hospitalised patients and patients with severe or progressive disease. NAIs can be considered in previously healthy patients when therapy can be initiated within 48 h of symptom onset. In previously healthy patients, the therapeutic efficacy of oseltamivir is time-dependent, with maximal benefit observed when therapy is initiated within 48 h of symptom onset. However, several observational studies suggest therapeutic benefit beyond 48 h, in hospitalised patients, severe disease, and patients at high risk of complications, including pregnant women. NAIs should be considered in patients at high risk of influenza-related complications who present late. Further studies are needed to define the optimal timing of NAIs. Oseltamivir-resistant virus has been widely reported but is predominantly an issue in H1N1 seasonal influenza. Zanamivir-resistant influenza virus is rare, and inhaled or intravenous (IV) zanamivir is the treatment of choice in proven or suspected oseltamivir-resistant virus. Intubated patients with severe influenza can be treated with oseltamivir (suspension) administered via nasogastric tube. The commercial dry powder formulation of zanamivir should not be administered, via nebulisation, as it has been associated with ventilator malfunction and mortality. In intubated patients, when there are concerns about gastric absorption, IV zanamivir should be obtained under Emergency Investigational New Drug access schemes. Currently available evidence does not support the use of high-dose or extended-duration oseltamivir in patients with severe influenza, but does require further investigation. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation has not been shown to be superior to conventional management in patients with influenza-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome and should be considered as salvage therapy. Corticosteriods should not be used in the treatment of severe influenza as this has been associated with increased risk of mortality and bacterial superinfection.