BACKGROUND Search for new antiviral and anticancer agents are essential because of the emergence of drug resistance in recent years. In continuation of our efforts in identifying the new small molecule antiviral and anticancer agents, we identified chalcones as potent antiviral and anticancer agents. OBJECTIVE With the aim of identifying the broad acting antiviral and anticancer agents, we discovered substituted aryl/heteroaryl derived thienyl chalcones as antiviral and anticancer agents. METHOD A focused set of thienyl chalcone derivaties II-VI was screened for selected viruses Hepatitis B virus (HBV), Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1), Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), Dengue virus 2 (DENV2), Influenza A (H1N1) virus, MERS coronavirus, Poliovirus 1 (PV 1), Rift Valley fever (RVF), Tacaribe virus (TCRV), Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus (VEE) and Zika virus (ZIKV) using the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID)'s Division of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (DMID) antiviral screening program. Additionally, a cyclopropylquinoline derivative IV has been screened for 60 human cancer cell lines using the Development Therapeutics Program (DTP) of NCI. RESULTS All thienyl chalcone derivatives II-VI displayed moderate to excellent antiviral activity towards several viruses tested. Compounds V and VI were turned out be active compounds towards human cytomegalovirus for both normal strain (AD169) as well as resistant isolate (GDGr K17). Particularly, cyano derivative V showed very high potency (EC50: <0.05 µM) towards AD169 strain of HCMV compared to standard drug Ganciclovir (EC50: 0.12 µM). Additionally, it showed moderate activity in the secondary assay (AD169; EC50: 2.30 µM). The cyclopropylquinoline derivative IV displayed high potency towards Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) and Tacaribe virus (TCRV) towards Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV). The cyclopropylquinoline derivative IV is nearly 28 times more potent in our initial in vitro visual assay (EC50: 0.39 µg/ml) and nearly 17 times more potent in neutral red assay (EC50: 0.71 μg/ml) compared to the standard drug Ribavirin (EC50: 11 µg/ml; visual assay and EC50: 12 µg/ml; neutral red assay). It is nearly 12 times more potent in our initial in vitro visual assay (EC50: >1 µg/ml) and nearly 8 times more potent in neutral red assay (EC50: >1.3 µg/ml) compared to the standard drug Ribavirin (EC50: 12 µg/ml; visual assay and EC50: 9.9 µg/ml; neutral red assay) towards Tacaribe virus (TCRV). Additionally, cyclopropylquinoline derivative IV has shown strong growth inhibitory activity towards three major cancers (colon, breast, and leukemia) cell lines and moderate growth inhibition shown towards other cancer cell lines screened. CONCLUSION Compounds V and VI were demonstrated viral inhibition towards Human cytomegalovirus, whereas cyclopropylquinoline derivative IV towards Rift Valley fever virus and Tacaribe virus. Additionally, cyclopropylquinoline derivative IV has displayed very good cytotoxicity against colon, breast and leukemia cell lines in vitro.