OBJECTIVE To assess urinary, sexual, and bowel function before and after laparoscopic bowel resection for rectosigmoid endometriosis. DESIGN Prospectively collected data regarding the function of the pelvic organs. SETTING Tertiary endometriosis referral unit, Aarhus University Hospital. SAMPLE A cohort of 128 patients who underwent laparoscopic bowel resection for endometriosis. METHODS The International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire (ICIQ), Sexual Function-Vaginal Changes Questionnaire (SVQ), and the Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) questionnaire were answered before and after surgery. Non-invasive urodynamic testing was performed. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Pre- and postoperative function of the pelvic organs was compared, and risk factors for improved/impaired function were identified. RESULTS A total of 96.1% of the women completed the 1-year follow-up. A significant decrease (P = 0.002) in bladder filling problems (F-score) was observed 1 year after surgery, primarily caused by a significant decrease in bladder pain (P = 0.0001). No change for urodynamic parameters was observed. A significant increase in overall sexual satisfaction (P = 0.0001) and decrease in worries about sexual life (P = 0.001) was seen 1 year after surgery. Frequency of defecation was significantly increased 1 year after surgery (P = 0.0001), but the overall bowel function measured by LARS score was unchanged. Patients with anastomotic leakage had a significantly higher risk (odds ratio, OR 5.40; P = 0.002) of increased incontinence problems (I-score) 1 year after surgery. CONCLUSION A significant and clinically relevant improvement in urinary and sexual function 1 year after laparoscopic bowel resection for endometriosis was found. Except for anastomotic leakage, this could be observed independent of any patient- or treatment-related factor. Apprehension about impairment of urinary and sexual function should not be a contraindication for bowel resection in endometriosis patients. TWEETABLE ABSTRACT Rectal resection for endometriosis does not impair urinary and sexual function 1 year after surgery.