Introduction Burnout and depression are well-described in medical students and physicians and can lead to adverse personal and patient outcomes; however, their time course and risk factors remain understudied. Here, we measured multiple domains of mental and physical health and wellness and assessed gender differences among incoming physician trainees beginning residency at an academic medical center. Methods Using a cross-sectional study design, all incoming trainees (i.e. housestaff) at Johns Hopkins Hospital received a questionnaire assessing depression, burnout, sleep, exercise, and alcohol consumption, among other domains. Standardized instruments were utilized for questionnaire development. Tests of significance were two-tailed. Results 196 of 229 incoming housestaff (86%) completed the survey, and 49% were female. A history of depression was reported in 8%, and 5.4% met criteria for at least moderate depression by Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). Females were more likely to report a history of depression than males (13% vs. 3%, p=0.02) but had similar PHQ-9 scores. Four percent of participants reported feeling they were in the wrong profession. Goal and mean sleep were 7 and 6.7 hours/night, respectively. Forty-seven percent reported exercising once/week or not at all. While mean reported weekly alcohol consumption was three drinks, participants reported consuming ≥5 drinks in one sitting on average 1.6 times in the prior 6 months, and 4% used alcohol to sleep. Conclusions Incoming housestaff reported generally favorable mental and physical health at the beginning of residency training. However, exercise rates were low, and ill-suited alcohol consumption was noted, though infrequent. The few areas of possible improvement were largely similar between males and females. Wellness interventions might capitalize on the relatively high morale and health at the completion of medical school by helping to promote healthy habits, including regular exercise and avoidance of excess alcohol consumption, throughout future training and practice.