Abstract Importance The delivery of emergency, trauma, critical and intensive care services requires coordination among all members of the care team. Perceived teamwork and role clarity may vary among physicians (MDs) and nurse practitioners (NPs). Objective To examine differences in perceived roles and responsibilities of NPs and MDs practicing in emergency, trauma, critical and intensive care. Main Outcome(s) and Measure(s) Key clinical activities, perceptions of role clarity, teamwork and preparedness to function as a team in disaster Design Secondary Analysis of the National Survey of Emergency, Intensive and Critical Care Nurse Practitioners and Physicians, a 2015 cross-sectional national survey of clinicians. Setting Mail survey of randomly selected stratified cross-sectional samples of MDs and NPs drawn from national lists of clinicians in eligible specialties working in emergency, trauma, intensive and critical care units in the United States. Participants 814 clinicians (351 NPs and 463 MDs) recruited from national by postal mail survey. Our initial sample included n=2063 clinicians, n=1031 NPs and n=1032 MDs in eligible specialties. Of these, 63.5% of NPs and 70.1% of MDs completed and returned the survey excluding those who were ineligible due to lack of current practice in a relevant specialty Results NPs in ICU/CCU are more likely to be female and report working fewer hours than do MDs and provide direct care to more patients. 55% of NPs and 82% of MDs agree that their individual role in their unit is clear (p<.001); 34% of MDs and 42% of NPs agree that their unit is an example of excellent team work among professionals (p=0.021); 41% of MD and 37% of NP clinicians (p=0.061) agree that their teams are “prepared to provide outstanding care in a crisis or disaster”. Perceived role clarity was significantly associated with increased perceptions of excellent teamwork and disaster preparedness. Conclusion and Relevance Leaders of health organizations need to engage with one another and with their professional teams to assure that roles and responsibilities are clear and that teams are both prepared to provide the highest quality and efficient care in critical care and in disaster.