PURPOSE: The COVID-19 pandemic has affected orthopedic practices worldwide. Few studies focusing on epidemiology and management of fractures in COVID 19 patients have been published. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the fracture types, presentation, treatment, complications, and early outcomes of fractures occurring amidst COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis of the all published papers was conducted with a comprehensive search of PubMed, Google Scholar, Scopus, and Cochrane Library database using keywords ‘COVID-19’, ‘Coronavirus’, ‘trauma*'and ‘fracture’ from January–April 2020. RESULTS: The searches yielded a total of ten studies with 112 Patients who were positive for COVID 19 associated with fractures. Individual patient data meta-analysis was performed as feasible, for six studies, reporting data separately for 44 patients with COVID 19 and an associated fracture. Meta-analysis showed that a diagnosis of COVID 19 was made on the basis of positive Computed Tomography scan in 39 patients and 30 patients had a positive Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction test. Overall, there were 29 proximal femoral fractures, 8 spine fractures, 7 fractures of the other bones. The fractures were treated surgically in 30 cases (68.18%) and the remaining 14 cases (31.82%) were managed conservatively. There were 16 patients (36.36%) who died, mostly due to respiratory failure with a median age of 82 years. CONCLUSION: COVID-19 has led to a significant reduction in a load of fracture patients globally, though the incidence of fragility fractures continues to be unaffected. There is a significantly higher risk of mortality in elderly patients with fractures and hence they should only be operated in a facility with a robust intensive care. Conservative treatment should be adopted as far as possible in non-obligatory fractures and in lesser equipped centers. Surgery in patients with proximal femur fragility fractures when judiciously selected did result in improvement in respiratory status. Reorganizing medical services is vital to deliver effective fracture care and also mitigate disease transmission.