The less traumatic use of surgical adhesives rather than sutures for mesh fixation in hernia repair has started to gain popularity because they induce less host tissue damage and provoke less postoperative pain. This study examines the host tissue response to a new cyanoacrylate (CA) adhesive (n-octyl, OCA). Partial defects (3 × 5 cm) created in the rabbit anterior abdominal wall were repaired by mesh fixation using OCA, Glubran2®(n-butyl-CA), Ifabond®(n-hexyl-CA) or sutures. Samples were obtained at 14/90 days for morphology, collagens qRT-PCR/immunofluorescence and biomechanical studies. All meshes were successfully fixed. Seroma was detected mainly in the Glubran group at 14 days. Meshes fixed using all methods showed good host tissue incorporation. No signs of degradation of any of the adhesives were observed. At 14 days, collagen 1 and 3 mRNA expression levels were greater in the suture and OCA groups, and lower in Ifabond, with levels varying significantly in the latter group with respect to the others. By 90 days, expression levels had fallen in all groups, except for collagen 3 mRNA in Ifabond. Collagen I and III protein expression was marked in the suture and OCA groups at 90 days, but lower in Ifabond at both time points. Tensile strengths were similar across groups. Our findings indicate the similar behavior of the adhesives to sutures in terms of good tissue incorporation of the meshes and optimal repair zone strength. The lower seroma rate and similar collagenization to controls induced by OCA suggests its improved behavior over the other two glues. This article deals with a preclinical study to examine different aspects of the repair process in the host of three alkyl cyanoacrylates (n-butyl (GLUBRAN 2), n-hexyl (IFABOND), and n-octyl cyanoacrylate (EVOBOND)) compared to sutures (control), in the fixation of surgical meshes for hernia repair. It goes into detail about collagen deposition in the repair zone at short and medium term. The results obtained demonstrate lower seroma rate and similar collagenization to sutures induced by the n-octyl suggesting better behavior than the other two cyanoacrylates.