OBJECTIVE A major hurdle limiting the ability to improve the quality of resuscitation has been the lack of a noninvasive real-time detection system capable of monitoring the quality of cerebral and other organ perfusion, as well as oxygen delivery during cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Here, we report on a novel system of cerebral perfusion targeted resuscitation. DESIGN An observational study evaluating the role of cerebral oximetry (Equanox; Nonin, Plymouth, MI, and Invos; Covidien, Mansfield, MA) as a real-time marker of cerebral perfusion and oxygen delivery together with the impact of an automated mechanical chest compression system (Life Stat; Michigan Instruments, Grand Rapids, MI) on oxygen delivery and return of spontaneous circulation following in-hospital cardiac arrest. SETTING Tertiary medical center. PATIENTS In-hospital cardiac arrest patients (n = 34). MAIN RESULTS Cerebral oximetry provided real-time information regarding the quality of perfusion and oxygen delivery. The use of automated mechanical chest compression device (n = 12) was associated with higher regional cerebral oxygen saturation compared with manual chest compression device (n = 22) (53.1% ± 23.4% vs 24% ± 25%, p = 0.002). There was a significant difference in mean regional cerebral oxygen saturation (median % ± interquartile range) in patients who achieved return of spontaneous circulation (n = 15) compared with those without return of spontaneous circulation (n = 19) (47.4% ± 21.4% vs 23% ± 18.42%, p < 0.001). After controlling for patients achieving return of spontaneous circulation or not, significantly higher mean regional cerebral oxygen saturation levels during cardiopulmonary resuscitation were observed in patients who were resuscitated using automated mechanical chest compression device (p < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS The integration of cerebral oximetry into cardiac arrest resuscitation provides a novel noninvasive method to determine the quality of cerebral perfusion and oxygen delivery to the brain. The use of automated mechanical chest compression device during in-hospital cardiac arrest may lead to improved oxygen delivery and organ perfusion.