OBJECTIVE TAS-102 is effective for treating patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). This study determined whether combining bevacizumab (Bmab) with TAS-102 improves clinical outcomes in refractory mCRC. PATIENTS AND METHODS We retrospectively analyzed data from Japanese patients with refractory mCRC who received TAS-102 (35 mg/m2 , twice a day) with (T-B group) or without Bmab (TAS-102 monotherapy; T group) between July 2014 and December 2018. The primary endpoint was median overall survival (OS), and secondary endpoints were median time to treatment failure, overall response rate, and the incidence of adverse events. Clinical outcomes were compared using propensity score matched analysis. RESULTS Data from 57 patients were analyzed (T-B group: 21 patients, T group: 36 patients). Median OS was significantly longer in the T-B group than the T group (14.4 months vs. 4.5 months, p < .001). Cox proportional hazard analysis showed that combination therapy with Bmab was significantly correlated with OS. Propensity score matched analysis confirmed that the median OS was significantly longer in the T-B group than the T group (14.4 months vs. 6.1 months, p = .006) and that there was a significant correlation between Bmab and OS. The incidence of hypertension (grade ≥2) as an adverse event was significantly higher in the T-B group than the T group (23.8% vs. 0.0%, p = .005), whereas other adverse events were comparable between the two groups. CONCLUSION Treatment with Bmab in combination with TAS-102 is significantly associated with improved clinical outcomes in patients with mCRC refractory to standard therapies. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE Combining bevacizumab (Bmab) with TAS-102 significantly improved overall survival and several prognostic indicators in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) refractory to standard therapies, with manageable toxicities. Treatment with Bmab in combination with TAS-102 is significantly associated with improved clinical outcomes in patients with mCRC.