INTRODUCTION: COVID-19 is novel coronavirus infection in 2019. Many reports suggested that psychological intervention is playing a positive role in COVID-19 treatment, but there is no high-quality evidence to prove its effects. This paper reports the protocol of a systematic review and meta-analysis to clarify effectiveness of psychological intervention during the treatment of COVID-19. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The following electronic databases will be used by 2 independent reviewers: Web of Science, Embase, Cochrane Library, PubMed, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure, Chinese Scientific Journal Database, Wan fang Database, ClinicalTrials, WHO Trials, and Chinese Clinical Trial Registry. The randomised controlled trials of psychological intervention on COVID-19 will be searched in the databases by 2 researchers independently. Clinical recovery time and effective rate will be assessed as the primary outcomes. Changes of patients physical condition (1. Time until COVID-19 RT-PCR negative in upper respiratory tract specimen; 2. Time until cough reported as mild or absent; 3. Time until dyspnea reported as mild or absent; 4. Frequency of requiring supplemental oxygen or non-invasive ventilation; 5. Frequency of requiring respiratory; 6. Incidence of severe cases; 7. Proportion of re-hospitalization or admission to ICU; 8. All-cause mortality; 9. Frequency of seriously adverse events) and changes of psychological condition (such as: SRQ-20, PHQ-9, GAD-7, Hamilton Depression Scale, Hamilton Anxiety Scale) will be assessed as the secondary outcomes. For dichotomous outcomes, such as effective rate, data will be expressed as risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). For continuous outcomes, weighted mean differences (WMD) or standardized mean differences (SMD) will be calculated. Fixed effect model will be used for evaluating efficiency. Considering clinical heterogeneity, random effect model will be used for continuous outcomes. RESULTS: Relevant studies will be used to evaluate whether psychological intervention is effective for COVID-19. CONCLUSION: This study will provide reliable evidence for psychological intervention on COVID-19. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42020178699.