BACKGROUND The type of fundoplication that should be performed in conjunction with Heller myotomy for esophageal achalasia is controversial. We prospectively compared anterior fundoplication (Dor) with partial posterior fundoplication (Toupet) in patients undergoing laparoscopic Heller myotomy. METHODS A multicenter, prospective, randomized-controlled trial was initiated to compare Dor versus Toupet fundoplication after laparoscopic Heller myotomy. Outcome measures were symptomatic GERD scores (0-4, five-point Likert scale questionnaire) and 24-h pH testing at 6-12 months after surgery. Data are mean ± SD. Statistical analysis was by Mann-Whitney U test, Wilcoxon signed rank test, and Freidman's test. RESULTS Sixty of 85 originally enrolled and randomized patients who underwent 36 Dor and 24 Toupet fundoplications had follow-up data per protocol for analysis. Dor and Toupet groups were similar in age (46.8 vs. 51.7 years) and gender (52.8 vs. 62.5% male). pH studies at 6-12 months in 43 patients (72%: Dor n = 24 and Toupet n = 19) showed total DeMeester scores and % time pH < 4 were not significant between the two groups. Abnormal acid reflux was present in 10 of 24 Dor group patients (41.7%) and in 4 of 19 Toupet patients (21.0%) (p = 0.152). Dysphagia and regurgitation symptom scores improved significantly in both groups compared to preoperative scores. No significant differences in any esophageal symptoms were noted between the two groups preoperatively or at follow-up. SF-36 quality-of-life measures changed significantly from pre- to postoperative for five of ten domains in the Dor group and seven of ten in the Toupet patients (not significant between groups). CONCLUSION Laparoscopic Heller myotomy provides significant improvement in dysphagia and regurgitation symptoms in achalasia patients regardless of the type of partial fundoplication. Although a higher percentage of patients in the Dor group had abnormal 24-h pH test results compared to those of patients who underwent Toupet, the differences were not statistically significant.