The SARS coronavirus type 2 (SARS-CoV-2) emerged in late 2019 as a zoonotic virus highly transmissible between humans that has caused the COVID-19 pandemic 1,2. This pandemic has the potential to disrupt healthcare globally and has already caused high levels of mortality, especially amongst the elderly. The overall case fatality rate for COVID-19 is estimated to be ∼2.3% overall 3 and 32.3% in hospitalized patients age 70-79 years 4. Therapeutic options for treating the underlying viremia in COVID-19 are presently limited by a lack of effective SARS-CoV-2 antiviral drugs, although steroidal anti-inflammatory treatment can be helpful. A variety of potential antiviral targets for SARS-CoV-2 have been considered including the spike protein and replicase. Based upon previous successful antiviral drug development for HIV-1 and hepatitis C, the SARS-CoV-2 main protease (Mpro) appears an attractive target for drug development. Here we show the existing pharmacopeia contains many drugs with potential for therapeutic repurposing as selective and potent inhibitors of SARS-CoV-2 Mpro. We screened a collection of ∼6,070 drugs with a previous history of use in humans for compounds that inhibit the activity of Mpro in vitro. In our primary screen we found ∼50 compounds with activity against Mpro (overall hit rate <0.75%). Subsequent dose validation studies demonstrated 8 dose responsive hits with an IC50 ≤ 50 μM. Hits from our screen are enriched with hepatitis C NS3/4A protease targeting drugs including Boceprevir (IC50=0.95 μM), Ciluprevir (20.77μM). Narlaprevir (IC50=1.10μM), and Telaprevir (15.25μM). These results demonstrate that some existing approved drugs can inhibit SARS-CoV-2 Mpro and that screen saturation of all approved drugs is both feasible and warranted. Taken together this work suggests previous large-scale commercial drug development initiatives targeting hepatitis C NS3/4A viral protease should be revisited because some previous lead compounds may be more potent against SARS-CoV-2 Mpro than Boceprevir and suitable for rapid repurposing.