Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) and porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) are both members of the family Coronaviridae which induce clinical signs of diarrhea, dehydration, and in some circumstances, mortality. Most research has been focused on isolation, genome sequencing, pathogenicity, and virulence of these viruses, but there is little information on long-term growth performance and tissue accretion of pigs inoculated with PEDV or PDCoV. Therefore, our objective was to determine the effect of PEDV or PDCoV infection on growth performance and tissue accretion over 42 d following inoculation. A total of 75 Choice Genetics Large White Pureline barrows and gilts (BW = 10.81 ± 0.81 kg) at approximately 2 wk post-wean and naïve for PEDV and PDCoV were selected. Pigs were allotted based on BW and sex, stratified across 3 treatments with 8 pens per treatment. Treatments were: 1) Control (n = 8); 2) PEDV inoculated (n = 8); and 3) PDCoV inoculated (n = 8). On day post inoculation (dpi) 2, 5, 7, and 14 pigs were euthanized for tissue collection and analyses from these tissues are discussed elsewhere. Pen feed intake and BW were recorded on dpi 2, 5, 7, and weekly thereafter until dpi 42. On 1 designated pig per pen, initial and final body composition was determined using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and tissue accretion rates were calculated over 6 wk test period. Peak PEDV infection was noted at 3 dpi compared with 4 dpi for PDCoV pigs as determined by fecal swab quantitative real-time PCR (RT-PCR). Control pigs remained negative for PEDV and PDCoV throughout the experiment. Overall, Control and PDCoV pigs did not differ in ADG, ADFI or G:F (P > 0.05). Compared to Control and PDCoV pigs, the overall 42 d ADFI was reduced in the challenged PEDV pigs (P < 0.05) by 19 and 27%, respectively. PEDV did not significantly reduce the overall ADG or G:F compared with Control and PDCoV pigs; however, the biggest reduction in ADG and ADFI for PEDV pigs was within 14 dpi compared to the Control pigs (P < 0.05). Whole body tissue accretion was altered due to PED, with fat, lean, protein, and bone mineral accretion reductions by 24, 20, 21, and 42%, respectively (P < 0.05) compared with Control pigs. Overall, nursery pig performance was greatly impacted by PEDV challenge. Surprisingly, the PDCoV challenge did not negatively influence nursery pig performance. This study provides further insight into the longitudinal impact swine enteric coronaviruses have on growing pigs.