Multilocus electrophoretic methods and microcomplement fixation comparisons of serum albumin are used to assess phylogenetic relationships among species of uropeltid snakes, to infer aspects of their population biology and biogeography, and to evaluate their relationships to other primitive snakes (Henophidia). There is very good agreement between phylogenetic inferences derived from the electrophoretic data and those derived from the albumin immunological data. Protein variation detected by electrophoresis is relatively high among 17 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) examined. The mean number of alleles per locus (5.1 across all OTUs), levels of polymorphism (25% of loci), and heterozygosity (4–6%), are typical of, or greater than, values reported for other snakes. Species of uropeltids are genetically highly differentiated, as measured by genetic distances (lowest interspecific Nei's unbiased genetic distances, 0.22‐0.27 among several Sri Lankan species; 2.3 between Teretrurus of India and other uropeltines). The phylogenetic tree most consistent with both the immunological and electrophoretic data shows uropeltines from Sri Lanka to be monophyletic, but the Indian species are paraphyletic with respect to those from Sri Lanka. Rhinophis travancoricus of India is inferred to be the sister taxon to the Sri Lankan radiation. As the genera are presently understood, neither Rhinophis nor Uropeltis appears to be monophyletic. A biogeographic scenario derived from the phylogenetic hypothesis suggests an early diversification of uropeltids in India, followed by a single invasion into the lowlands of Sri Lanka. Subsequent evolution on Sri Lanka resulted in occupation of montane biotopes. Cylindrophis is the sister group to uropeltines and is considered a member of the Uropeltidae. The immunological data indicate no phylogenetic association between uropeltids and other ‘anilioid’ taxa, specifically Anilius, Loxocemus or Xenopeltis, although we cannot rule out a very remote relationship. We specifically reject the hypothesis that uropeltines and scolecophidians form a clade relative to henophidians. High levels of genetic variation and a trend toward negative F(IS) values for polymorphic loci in three populations suggest generally large effective population sizes and outbreeding in these species. The niche‐width variation hypothesis for allozyme loci is not supported by the uropeltid data. In comparison to other vertebrates, the relationship between Nei's genetic distance and albumin immunological distance in uropeltids suggests either conservative albumin evolution or strong differentiation at electrophoretic loci.