OBJECTIVES: This is the first of a 2-part article that discusses essential case management practices and strategies amidst the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The series showcases the potential professional case managers have in support of managing during a crisis such as this global pandemic. Part I discusses reenvisioned roles and responsibilities of case managers and leaders known to address patients' needs during a crisis, with a special focus on telehealth, tele-case management, surge capacity, redeployment, discharge planning, and transitions of care. PRIMARY PRACTICE SETTINGS: Applicable to the various case management practice settings across the continuum of health and human services, especially acute care. FINDINGS CONCLUSIONS: The COVID-19 global pandemic crisis has brought an unprecedented challenge to professional case managers and health care professionals. It also has provided opportunities for innovation and partnerships within and across health care organizations and the various care settings where patients/support systems access necessary services. Most importantly, it created a renewed interest in telehealth and facilitated a wider adoption of such approach to care delivery than ever before. This pandemic has also increased the use of nontraditional sites of care, most importantly those that operate virtually on electronic networks and health information system technologies such as remote visits, e-visits, virtual care, and tele-monitoring. Undoubtedly, these have provided new opportunities for tele-case management services and roles for professional case managers in the virtual world of health and human service delivery. IMPLICATIONS FOR CASE MANAGEMENT PRACTICE: Professional case managers are integral members of interprofessional health care teams. Their roles are even more necessary during a global pandemic such as COVID-19. The practice of case management will forever change—for the better. The experience of this crisis in health care has brought about ever-lasting implications for case management professionals. It has raised awareness to sites of care never were as popular before, resulting in an increased need and recognition for tele-case management practice and virtual case managers. It has also forced partnerships and collaborations among the diverse contexts of health care organizations (public, private, or both) and other industries, regardless of whether directly involved in the delivery of care or having a support service role. These new and innovative approaches in the provision of care and case management services will without a doubt become routine expectations beyond the current pandemic period. Of special note are the enhanced roles of case managers in discharge planning and transitions of care.