AIM The restoration of the digestive tract by performing an esophago-jejunal anastomosis (EJA) is a crucial step of the total gastric and distal esophagus surgical resection for esophago-gastric junction (EGJ) cancer. We have already ideated and tested on a cadaver model an innovative technique which could be useful to minimize the risk of complications related to the phase of securing the anvil of the circular stapler prior to perform the EJA. This surgical technique was derived from the well-known "double-stapling Knight and Griffen" one that was described for the rectal resection. We used the following described technique in 20 patients with EGJ cancer and it is efficient, reliable, safe, easy to learn and easy to perform. MATERIALS AND METHODS From August 2014 to May 2015, 20 patients (14 male and 6 female) underwent surgery for esophagogastric junction cancer: In all patients a distal esophageal resection and total gastrectomy was performed. Through the trans-hiatal access, the free margins of the esophageal stump were suspended and the anvil of a circular stapler on a new dedicated and registered support bar was inserted into the lumen. Subsequently, the linear suturing stapler is closed over the bar and then fired to suture the distal stump of the esophagus; after the confirmation of a negative margin, the bar is retracted and the push-rod of the anvil is pulled out through the linear suture. Finally, the anastomosis is performed with the classic technique by using a circular stapler. RESULTS No postoperative mortality occurred; postoperative course has been uneventful for 18 patients. One patient developed anastomotic fistula that has been treated conservatively with endoscopic prothesis, removed after 20 days. One patient developed in 3 POD myocardial infarction Mean Hospital stay has been 14 days (range 7-20 days). CONCLUSIONS The aim of our new procedure is the insertion the anvil of a common circular stapler without handsewn securing; this is to reduce the technical difficulties related to the hand-sewn securing into a deep and narrow anatomic location, typical of the trans-hiatal approach. KEY WORDS Anastomosis, Oesophago-gastric junction cancer, Stapler, Trans-hiatal.