COVID-19 was first seen in China at the end of December 2019. COVID-19 is a novel type of coronavirus that is defined as SARS-CoV-2, which can be mild or severe in the lungs, causing acute respiratory infection. The disease was first presented in the literature as Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in February 2020. The disease spread rapidly and was declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO) on March 11, 2020. There have been approximately 7734185 reported cases, and 412369 reported deaths to date (09/June/2020). As COVID-19 spread in the world and our country, hospitals struggling with this disease have also become risky areas for transmitting the disease. Health workers also have a high risk of viral contamination from direct contact of droplets and surfaces. Personal protective equipment (PPE), such as masks, coveralls, gloves, face shields and/or goggles, are mandatory. The aim is to spread the flow of cases requiring hospitalization over time, thereby preventing possible accumulation in hospitals. All non-urgent procedures, such as elective surgeries and diagnostic interventions, were significantly affected. The hospitalization procedures were mostly allocated to patients with COVID-19 infection, and surgical operations were postponed. Only urgent surgical cases and oncological surgeries that cannot be postponed were performed during this pandemic process. Patients followed by oncology are immunosuppressed both because of the disease itself and the side effects of chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy taken. This makes patients more susceptible to infections, and the prognosis of infections in these patients is worse and more destructive. Cancer patients are almost twice as likely to catch COVID-19 compared to the general population. The choice of surgical procedures and perioperative management of the patients with malignancy has become even more important in the COVID-19 pandemic. In this study, we analyzed the treatment processes of our patients with malignancy that underwent a surgical oncological procedure during this pandemic.