OBJECTIVE AND METHODS Renal denervation is a minimally invasive, catheter-based option for the treatment of refractory hypertension. Indications and contraindications for renal denervation have been defined in an interdisciplinary manner. The efficacy and safety of the procedure were evaluated. RESULTS Currently, indication for renal denervation is limited to patients with primary hypertension and a systolic blood pressure of ≥ 160 mm Hg (or ≥ 150 mm Hg in diabetes type 2) despite optimal medical therapy with ≥ 3 different antihypertensive drugs. In this specific patient population, an average blood pressure reduction of 32/14 mmHg was observed in non-randomized/-controlled trials after renal denervation. These results were not confirmed in the first randomized controlled trial with a non-significantly superior blood pressure reduction of 14.1 ± 23.9 mm Hg compared to controls (-11.74 ± 25.94 mm Hg, difference -2.39 mm Hg p = 0.26 for superiority with a margin of 5 mm Hg) who underwent a sham procedure. CONCLUSION The efficacy and long-term effects of renal denervation need to be re-evaluated in light of the HTN3 study results. To date, renal denervation should not be performed outside of clinical trials. Future trials should also assess if renal denervation can be performed with sufficient safety and efficacy in patients with hypertension-associated diseases. The use of renal denervation as an alternative therapy (e. g. in patients with drug intolerance) can currently not be advocated. KEY POINTS The indication for renal denervation should be assessed in an interdisciplinary fashion and according to current guidelines with a special focus on ruling out secondary causes for arterial hypertension. 5 - 10 % of patients with hypertension suffer from refractory hypertension, but only about 1 % of patients meet the criteria for a renal denervation. Renal denervation leads to a significant decrease in office blood pressure; however, the impact on 24-hour blood pressure measurements remains unclear. In the first randomized controlled trial on renal denervation with a control group undergoing a sham procedure, blood pressure reduction failed to reach the anticipated level of superiority over best medical treatment. Periprocedural complications are rare, but long-term safety can currently not be appraised due to the limited data available.