BACKGROUND: The proper use of face mask comprises the correct practice and wearing technique and is important in preventing the spread of respiratory infections. Previous studies have addressed only the aspect of practice and failed to provide a detailed account of face mask usage amongst community-based populations. This study examined the practice and technique of using face mask amongst adults. METHODS: A cross-sectional descriptive design was adopted. A quota sample of 1500 adults was recruited in Hong Kong during a nonepidemic state between January and February 2017. The participants' practice of using face mask in five given situations was assessed using a questionnaire. Their technique in using face mask, including 12 steps, was assessed using an observation checklist. Statistical tests were used to compare the differences in practice and technique amongst adults of different gender and age groups. RESULTS: Findings revealed that the performance of the participants in both categories was unsatisfactory. In terms of practice, less than one-fifth of the participants reported that they always wore face mask when taking care of family members with fever (14.7%) or respiratory infections (19.5%). Male adults and those aged 55-64 reported low frequency in using face mask during required situations. In terms of technique, none of the participants performed all the required steps in using face mask correctly. More than 90% of the participants did not perform hand hygiene before putting on (91.5%), taking off (97.3%), or after disposing (91.5%) face mask. Adults aged 55 and above performed poorer than adults in the younger age groups. CONCLUSION: Compared with previous findings obtained during an epidemic, the performance of the participants during a nonepidemic state was less satisfactory. The possibility of developing fatigue after exposure to repeated epidemics was discussed. This study contributes to a comprehensive understanding of the use of face mask in a community and reveals the underperformed areas. Effort is required to enhance the proper practice of using face mask, convey the message that hand hygiene is an essential step in wearing and taking off a face mask and increase the public's general concern in the value of using face mask.