BACKGROUND: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation in previously immunocompetent critically ill patients is associated with increased mortality, which has been hypothesized to result from virus-induced immunomodulation. Therefore, we studied the effects of CMV reactivation on the temporal course of host response biomarkers in patients with sepsis. METHODS: In this matched cohort study, each sepsis patient developing CMV reactivation between day 3 and 17 (CMV+) was compared with one CMV seropositive patient without reactivation (CMVs+) and one CMV seronegative patient (CMVs−). CMV serostatus and plasma loads were determined by enzyme-linked immunoassays and real-time polymerase chain reaction, respectively. Systemic interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-8, IL-18, interferon-gamma–induced protein-10 (IP-10), neutrophilic elastase, IL-1 receptor antagonist (RA), and IL-10 were measured at five time points by multiplex immunoassay. The effects of CMV reactivation on sequential concentrations of these biomarkers were assessed in multivariable mixed models. RESULTS: Among 64 CMV+ patients, 45 could be matched to CMVs+ or CMVs− controls or both. The two baseline characteristics and host response biomarker levels at viremia onset were similar between groups. CMV+ patients had increased IP-10 on day 7 after viremia onset (symmetric percentage difference +44% versus −15% when compared with CMVs+ and +37% versus +4% when compared with CMVs−) and decreased IL-1RA (−41% versus 0% and −49% versus +10%, respectively). However, multivariable analyses did not show an independent association between CMV reactivation and time trends of IL-6, IP-10, IL-10, or IL-1RA. CONCLUSION: CMV reactivation was not independently associated with changes in the temporal trends of host response biomarkers in comparison with non-reactivating patients. Therefore, these markers should not be used as surrogate clinical endpoints for interventional studies evaluating anti-CMV therapy. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1186/s13054-018-2261-0) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.