AIMS To record the incidence of specific diseases affecting working farm dogs; identify any apparent breed predispositions; determine the most important causes of loss from death, euthanasia, or retirement of the dog; and identify potential interventions that could reduce the incidence of disease. METHODS A national questionnaire-based cross-sectional study was conducted to identify the incidence of specific diseases, and circumstances of trauma affecting working farm dogs that presented to rural veterinary practices over a 12-month period, between April 2008 and April 2009. The practices were convenience-sampled on the basis of geography and size. RESULTS Sixty-six practices were approached, and veterinarians from 30 practices agreed to participate, with representation from all major rural regions of New Zealand. Data were provided on 2,214 presentations, excluding revisits, of which 51% were for Huntaways and 39% Heading dogs. Trauma was identified as a cause of injury in 848 (38%) visits. Huntaways were apparently over-represented in cases of constipation, gastric dilatation-volvulus (GDV), theriogenological problems, laryngitis, hip dysplasia, and degenerative lumbosacral disease. In contrast, Heading dogs were over-represented among cases of multiple ligamentous injury of the stifle, disruption of the gastrocnemius or Achilles tendon, tarsal injuries, and hip luxation. Traumatic injury involved injury by stock (20%), automotive incidents (19%), transit across fence lines (16%), and dog bites (12%). Loss occurred following 10% of visits, of which trauma was known to be involved in 32%. The most important non-traumatic causes of loss were GDV, degenerative joint disease, mammary neoplasia and diseases involving the female reproductive tract, cardiac disease, and poisoning. CLINICAL RELEVANCE Several important diseases appear amenable to intervention through nutrition, neutering, or behavioural modification, including constipation, GDV, theriogenological problems, dog-bite injuries, and laryngitis. Altering modes of transit across fence lines has the potential to reduce large numbers of serious orthopaedic injuries to working farm dogs.