BACKGROUND Recently new disease process, often referred to as athletic pubalgia (AP), has been acknowledged by the medical community. The patients suffering from this ailment present with unilateral or bilateral chronic groin pain associated with physical activity without a clear diagnosis of a groin hernia. Though physical therapy and medical treatments are considered first line remedies, some believe that surgical treatment may have better, quicker, and more durable outcomes and procedures aimed at groin reinforcement seem to relieve most of symptoms in the majority of the patients. Despite many surgeons consistently noting rectus insertion or adductor thinning, multiple hernia defects are often seen during dissections and the clinical significance of these findings is still not known. MATERIALS AND METHODS Between 2007 and 2011, 40 patients underwent an extra-peritoneal laparoscopic reinforcement of rectus abdominals and insertion of adductor muscles for AP. All patients underwent wide and bilateral groin dissection and the findings were cataloged. RESULTS All of the patients presented with groin defects upon wide dissection. Thirty-four patients (85%) presented with small bilateral indirect inguinal defects and 28 (70%) of these patients did not have any additional defects. Five patients (12.5%) were found to have only unilateral inguinal hernia defects. One patient presented with a small direct defect. In addition to these defects, five patients (12.5%) had additional unilateral femoral hernias, whereas no patient had solitary femoral hernia defects. CONCLUSION AP is a new diagnostic entity with poorly understood etiology. It mostly affects young active adults, often involved in competitive sports and surgical methods may be most effective at achieving the cure. In our experience all of the patients presented with groin defects, though not all were the same. It is our belief that these defects, although likely not the only component, play a significant role in the pathophysiology of AP.