Background There is a critical need for reliable antibody detection methods in order to study and evaluate the public health and clinical response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Lateral flow immunoassay (LFIA) devices offer the prospect of rapid point-of-care testing (POCT), but the performance of these devices must be evaluated for robustness before they can be adopted for routine clinical and public health use. Methods Plasma and serum specimens from SARS-CoV-2 RNA-positive (n = 131) and RNA-negative (n = 16) patients were taken from various time points with respect to the onset of symptoms. All 147 anonymised specimens were tested for IgM and IgG using the Hangzhou AllTest 2019-nCoV IgG/IgM Rapid Test Cassette and the Abbexa COVID-19 IgG/IgM Rapid Test Kit. Results IgM sensitivity ranged from 13% to 68%, depending on the date of symptom onset and the device. Regarding IgG, the Abbexa device outperformed the Hangzhou device at all cumulative timeline brackets, with sensitivity of 97路87% (Abbexa) versus 68路09% (Hangzhou) for samples beyond 21 days from symptom onset. Day 21 was therefore chosen as the cut-off for ascertaining test performance characteristics, beyond which the specificity was 100% for both devices and negative predictive value was 0路94 (Abbexa) versus 0路50 (Hangzhou). Discussion Based on this limited dataset, the performance characteristics of the Abbexa LFIA device were substantially better than those of the Hangzhou device. Applying a 21-day cut-off for the Abbexa device meets the minimum (98%) sensitivity and specificity thresholds set by the UK Medicine & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency. The Abbexa device captures antibodies against both SARS-CoV-2 spike and nucleocapsid proteins, as opposed to Hangzhou that targets only the nucleocapsid protein. We therefore propose that spike glycoprotein antibodies be considered as part of the standard diagnostic approach towards SARS-CoV-2 antibody profiling to improve clinical sensitivity and potentially specificity, pending follow-up studies to confirm this approach.