BACKGROUND Image-guided percutaneous radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been the most commonly used modality in the treatment of nonresectable hepatic malignancies. However, tumors in the subcapsular location are still technically challenging. This study was undertaken to evaluate the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of computed tomographic-guided percutaneous RFA with hydrodissection for hepatic malignancies in the subcapsular location. METHODS A total of 103 patients with 253 hepatic lesions were treated with computed tomographic-guided percutaneous RFA. Computed tomographic-guided percutaneous RFA with hydrodissection was performed in 15 patients with 15 hepatic nodules. All tumors located in the hepatic subcapsular location were considered difficult to treat on planning sonography. Hydrodissection was performed with 5% dextrose in water or saline solution in displacing adjacent structures ≥ 10 mm away from the liver capsule. Two RFA systems with multitined expandable electrodes or straight internally cooled single electrodes were used for treatment of hepatic malignancies. The feasibility, safety, and efficacy of this technique were analyzed on follow-up contrast-enhanced computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. RESULTS Hydrodissection was successfully achieved in 15 (100%) patients, displacing the adjacent structures ≥ 10 mm that were originally < 10 mm away from the liver capsule with administration of a mean of 376 mL of dextrose in water or saline solution. The average distance between an adjacent structure and the liver capsule after hydrodissection was 1.50 ± 0.40 cm and 0.11 ± 0.15 cm prior to hydrodissection, which was statistically significant (p < 0.001). No complication related to hydrodissection occurred during the follow-up period. The primary technical success rate of percutaneous RFA for tumor was 100% (15/15) at 1-month follow-up imaging. There were three minor complications (20%, 3/15) related to the RFA procedure. CONCLUSION Computed tomographic-guided percutaneous RFA with hydrodissection is a feasible, safe, and effective technique in the treatment of hepatic malignancies in the subcapsular location.