Patients who have large cerebral infarctions may not be good candidates for endovascular treatment. Various methods for determining infarct volume have been used in clinical studies. We evaluated the effectiveness of several methods for measuring infarct volume, especially regarding futile outcomes despite endovascular treatment.Patients with acute ischemic stroke in unilateral anterior circulation territory who were treated with intra-arterial thrombectomy were included. For assessing infarct volume, the Alberta Stroke Program Early Computed Tomography Score (ASPECTS) scoring system was applied to images obtained by noncontrast computed tomography (NCCT), postcontrast CT (PCCT), and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). DWI stroke volume was semiquantitatively measured with the manually outlined hyperintense lesion. Infarct core volume was calculated with a threshold apparent diffusion coefficient value of 600 × 10 mm/s. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) were estimated to assess inter-reader reliability for ASPECTS scoring and DWI stroke volume. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses, and univariable and multivariable comparative analyses, were performed with each evaluation method to predict futile outcome (modified Rankin Scale score 5-6).The mean age of the included 79 patients was 65.1 ± 15.7 years. Among them, 55 (69.6%) patients demonstrated successful reperfusion after intra-arterial thrombectomy, but 34 (43.0%) patients had futile outcomes. Inter-reader agreement was excellent for measurement of the DWI stroke volume (ICC, 0.973), DWI ASPECTS (0.940), and PCCT ASPECTS (0.859), but was moderate for NCCT ASPECTS (0.694). Regarding prediction of futile outcomes, area under ROC curve was 0.551 on NCCT ASPECTS and it was significantly smaller than that in PCCT ASPECTS (area under ROC 0.651, P = 0.030), DWI ASPECTS (0.733, P = 0.003), DWI stroke volume (0.702, P = 0.022), and infarct core volume (0.702, P = 0.021). Besides old age and high National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score on admission, MRI parameters such as DWI ASPECTS and infarct core volume indicating large volumes were independently associated with futile outcomes in multivariable analyses.DWI ASPECTS can be a good parameter predicting futility, which is easily measured and has high prediction power.