Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the agents with activity primarily against RNA viruses. The communicable diseases of the respiratory tract are probably the most common cause of symptomatic human infections. The viruses that are causative agents for human respiratory disease comprise the five taxonomically distinct families: orthomyxoviridae, paramyxoviridae, picornaviridae, coronaviridae, and adenoviridae. The influenza viruses, which consist of types A, B, and C, belong to the family orthomyxoviridae. Types A and B have been associated with significant increases in mortality during epidemics. The disease may be asymptomatic or cause symptoms ranging from the common cold to fatal pneumonia. Immunization against influenza has been recommended for high-risk groups and antiviral chemotherapy (amantadine) is available for the treatment and prophylaxis of all influenza A infections. There is both a great need for and interest in developing a chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of these two viral, respiratory tract pathogens. The family picornaviridae contains the genus Rhinovirus that is composed of over a hundred distinct serotypes. Amantadine and rimantadine are specifically active against influenza A virus infections. The amantadine recipients reported a higher incidence of side effects largely attributed to the central nervous system (CNS) symptoms. This difference in side effects may be a pharmacokinetic phenomenon that results in higher plasma concentrations of amantadine. Significant progress continues to be made in the clinical use and development of agents active against DNA viruses. Acyclovir (9-(2-h droxyethoxymethyl)guanine) has been the subject of several reviews and of a syrnposium. Considerable progress has been made in evaluating the clinical promise of acyclovir; however, there remains much to be learned concerning the best use of this drug in clinical practice. Significant strides have been made in the development of clinically useful antiviral agents, especially against the DNA viruses of the herpes family. Most of these agents are directed against viral nucleic acid synthesis and require activation by a virus-induced thymidine kinase. Researchers have begun to focus on other strategies that may produce broader spectrum anti-viral agents with different mechanisms of action.