The rapid spread of COVID-19 across the world has revealed major gaps in our ability to respond to new virulent pathogens. Rapid, accurate, and easily configurable molecular diagnostic tests are imperative to prevent global spread of new diseases. CRISPR-based diagnostic approaches are proving to be useful as field-deployable solutions. In a basic form of this assay, the CRISPR-Cas12 enzyme complexes with a synthetic guide RNA (gRNA). This complex is activated when it highly specifically binds to target DNA, and the activated complex non-specifically cleaves single-stranded DNA reporter probes labeled with a fluorophore-quencher pair. We recently discovered that electric field gradients can be used to control and accelerate this CRISPR assay by co-focusing Cas12-gRNA, reporters, and target. We achieve an appropriate electric field gradient using a selective ionic focusing technique known as isotachophoresis (ITP) implemented on a microfluidic chip. Unlike previous CRISPR diagnostic assays, we also use ITP for automated purification of target RNA from raw nasopharyngeal swab sample. We here combine this ITP purification with loop-mediated isothermal amplification, and the ITP-enhanced CRISPR assay to achieve detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA (from raw sample to result) in 30 min for both contrived and clinical nasopharyngeal swab samples. This electric field control enables a new modality for a suite of microfluidic CRISPR-based diagnostic assays. Significance statement Rapid, early-stage screening is especially crucial during pandemics for early identification of infected patients and control of disease spread. CRISPR biology offers new methods for rapid and accurate pathogen detection. Despite their versatility and specificity, existing CRISPR-diagnostic methods suffer from the requirements of up-front nucleic acid extraction, large reagent volumes, and several manual steps—factors which prolong the process and impede use in low resource settings. We here combine on-chip electric-field control in combination with CRIPSR biology to directly address these limitations of current CRISPR-diagnostic methods. We apply our method to the rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in clinical samples. Our method takes 30 min from raw sample to result, a significant improvement over existing diagnostic methods for COVID-19.