Uterine myomas are the most common type of benign tumor in women of reproductive age and are commonly associated with menorrhagia, dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and urinary symptoms. Uterine fibroids have been also linked to infertility and pregnancy loss. Women wishing to preserve or restore their fertility are best treated by myomectomy. Robotic-assisted laparoscopic myomectomy is one of the latest technological applications of minimally invasive surgery. Limited data exist regarding the feasibility of robotic-assisted laparoscopic myomectomy (RALM) in terms of pregnancy and surgical outcomes, and more studies are needed. The goal of this study is to assess reproductive outcomes following RALM in a private practice setting. The study was performed in the form of a retrospective chart review. Female patients 22-44 years old diagnosed with intramural myoma were eligible for inclusion. Presence of a myoma was a necessary but not necessarily the presenting symptom. All patients underwent RALM between January 2006 and May 2009 under the care of one surgeon at two clinical sites. Patients were selected postsurgically via chart review based on inclusion parameters outlined above. Median values for pregnancy rate, number of myomas, diameter of largest myoma, surgery duration, and blood loss were calculated and used for subsequent statistical analysis. Clinically useful markers for pregnancy outcomes evaluation following RALM were identified. Thirty patients were enrolled, of whom 16 were interested in conception due to infertility. A pregnancy rate of 75 % was recorded. Among those who conceived, eight patients (67 %) reported natural conception within 6 months of unprotected intercourse, while four patients (33 %) utilized assisted reproductive technologies to conceive. One patient (8 %) miscarried. Two patients (17 %) experienced premature delivery, at 28 and 32 weeks, respectively. All deliveries were performed via Cesarean section. No surgical complications were reported following RALM. There were no cases of scar dehiscence or rupture. The median number of myomas in those who delivered was estimated at 1.0 compared with 3.5 in those unable to conceive (p < 0.05). In addition, median age was 34 compared with 42.5 years, respectively (p < 0.05). This retrospective study assessed pregnancy outcomes following RALM. Our pregnancy rate of 75 % combined with a low incidence of complications contributes to the limited pool of data available on this topic, and supports the need for a multicenter trial to further evaluate effectiveness and safety of RALM in terms of pregnancy outcomes.