BACKGROUND: The global outbreak of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) began in December 2019. The high levels of stress experienced by nurses during this pandemic may have immediate and long-term effects on their mental health. PURPOSE: To explore the stress and psychological problems of nurses during this pandemic and to identify strategies used by these nurses to relieve stress. METHODS: A cross-sectional online survey was conducted that included a basic information datasheet, stress of nursing staff during COVID-19 outbreak scale, psychological distress scale, and stress relief methods survey form. Convenience sampling was used and a total of 469 practicing nurses participated in this study. RESULTS: Most of the participants expressed concerns about living problems (72.7%). On the stress questionnaire, the facets of "burden of taking care of patients" and "worries about social isolation" earned the first and second highest scores, respectively. In terms of items, "worrying about infecting family members and friends" and "worrying about being separated from family after being infected" earned the two highest scores (2.35 ± 0.79 and 2.17 ± 0.92, respectively). Scores for psychological distress averaged 5.49 ± 3.83, with stress anxiety (1.32 ± 0.84) earning the highest mean subscale score followed by distress and irritability (1.17 ± 0.92) and depression (1.12 ± 0.94). Nearly two-thirds (61.8%) of the participants earned psychological and emotional distress scores within the 'normal' range, and 3.4% earned scores indicating severe distress. "Receiving education and training" was the most common method used by the participants to relieve stress (2.27 ± 0.51). CONCLUSIONS: The following six strategies are proposed based on the above findings: (1) Caring: provide psychological assessment and care; (2) Supporting: create a friendly team atmosphere and provide support; (3) Inquiring: recruit volunteers with relevant experience; (4) Informing: provide timely, open, and transparent epidemic-prevention information; (5) Equipping: provide complete and appropriate epidemic-prevention education and training; (6) Assisting: establish a strategy for family support and caring to reduce the stress and worries of nurses.