UNLABELLED Blister aneurysms of are rare lesions representing a real challenge for diagnosis and management. They typically show small size, hemispherical shape, fragile wall, broad neck, and are arising from non-branching sites of intracranial arteries. MATERIALS AND METHODS We retrospectively reviewed all aneurysms treated at our institution. Seventeen patients (6 male, 11 female) with 17 blister aneurysms were identified (mean age 53.3, range 41-63 years). Clinical, procedural, angiographic data as well as follow up data were evaluated. RESULTS All patients presented with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Majority of the blister aneurysms were located in ICA while 1 was located at posterior cerebral artery, 1 at vertebral and 1 involving basilar artery. All patients were treated using single or overlapping stents and if possible additional coiling. There was no intra-operative rupture. Good outcome (mrs 0-2) was seen in 14 patients. Poor clinical outcome (mrs 3-5) was seen in 2 patients due to vasospasm induced ischemic deficits at discharge, both of them improved on follow up (mrs 1 on follow up). There were 3 mortalities, One patient died of rebleeding while other 2 died due to SAH induced complications. Follow-up angiography was available in 16 patients (one patient died before follow up angiogram) and revealed complete or near complete aneurysm occlusion in 11, incomplete obliteration in 1 and no change in 2 cases. Two cases showed post-treatment angiographic aneurysm recurrence. Both cases were managed with repeat coiling and overlapping stent placement. CONCLUSION Endovascular management using single/overlapping stent and if possible coil placement is technically safe and feasible in blister aneurysms. Overlapping stents lead to better aneurysm occlusion than a single stent. Blister aneurysm in dorso-medial ICA showed higher tendency of continued growth/recurrence, higher incidence of clinical vasospasm and in these cases early angiographic follow-up is advisable. Repeat treatment should be considered promptly if necessary.