Introduction: The worldwide spread of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV2) has prompted numerous countries to restrict public life. Related measures, such as limits on social gatherings, business closures, or lockdowns, are expected to considerably reduce the individual opportunities to move outside the home. As physical activity (PA) and sport participation significantly contribute to health, this study has two objectives. The objectives of this study are to assess changes in PA and well-being since the coronavirus outbreak in affected countries. Additionally, we will evaluate the impact of digital home-based exercise programs on PA as well as physical and mental health outcomes. Method: A multinational network trial will be conducted with three planned phases (A, B, and C). Part A consists of administering a structured survey. It investigates changes in PA levels and health during the coronavirus outbreak and measures the preferences of the participants regarding online training programs. Part B is a two-armed randomized-controlled trial. Participants assigned to the intervention group (IG) will complete a digital 4-week home exercise training (live streaming via internet) guided by the survey results on content and time of program. The control group (CG) will not receive the program. Part C is 4-week access of both CG and IG to a digital archive of pre-recorded workouts from Part B. Similar to Part A, questionnaires will be used in both Part B and C to estimate the effects of exercise on measures of mental and physical health. Results and Discussion: The ASAP project will provide valuable insights into the importance of PA during a global pandemic. Our initial survey is the first to determine how governmental confinement measures impact bodily and mental well-being. Based on the results, the intervention studies will be unique to address health problems potentially arising from losses in PA. If proven effective, the newly developed telehealth programs could become a significant and easy-to-distribute factor in combating PA decreases. Results of the study may hence guide policy makers on methods to maintain PA and health when being forced to restrict public life. Study Register: DRKS00021273.