UNLABELLED Clear cell renal cell cancer (ccRCC) prominently expresses vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), and new treatment strategies for renal cell cancer (RCC) aim at the inhibition of VEGF-VEGF receptor signaling. This study explores the ability of (111)In-bevacizumab scintigraphy to depict RCC and to evaluate response to neoadjuvant treatment with sorafenib, a VEGF receptor inhibitor. METHODS The ability to depict RCC with (111)In-bevacizumab scintigraphy was tested in 14 patients scheduled to undergo a tumor nephrectomy; of these, 9 RCC patients were treated in a neoadjuvant setting with sorafenib (400 mg orally twice a day). In the latter group, baseline and posttreatment (111)In-bevacizumab scans were compared. The intratumoral distribution of (111)In-bevacizumab was determined scintigraphically ex vivo in a 1-cm lamella of the resected tumorous kidney. Expression of VEGF-A, glucose transporter-1, carbonic anhydrase IX, α-smooth-muscle actin, and Ki67 was determined by immunohistochemistry and compared with the local concentration of (111)In-bevacizumab. Additionally, the VEGF-A content in tumor samples was determined quantitatively by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS In all 5 non-neoadjuvant-treated patients, preferential accumulation of (111)In-bevacizumab was observed in the tumors. All ccRCC lesions with enhanced (111)In-bevacizumab targeting expressed high levels of VEGF-A. Treatment with sorafenib resulted in a significant decrease of (111)In-bevacizumab uptake in the tumor in the patients with ccRCC (mean change, -60.5%; range, +1.5% to -90.1%). The decrease in uptake was due to destruction of the tumor neovasculature, whereas the VEGF-A expression remained intact. In the patient with papillary RCC, limited uptake without change after sorafenib was observed. CONCLUSION RCC lesions were clearly delineated with (111)In-bevacizumab scintigraphy. Neoadjuvant treatment with sorafenib resulted in a significant decrease of (111)In-bevacizumab uptake in RCC. (111)In-bevacizumab scintigraphy can be an attractive biomarker for response and needs further study.