SIMPLE SUMMARY: The black soldier fly is an insect of which the larvae can eat almost any organic matter, including organic waste. The larvae are edible and can be fed to livestock, fish, or even people. Around the world, black soldier fly farms and composting facilities are being established to process waste into animal feed, with economic and environmental benefits. The Pacific Small Island Developing States stand to benefit greatly from black soldier fly farming to solve multiple problems they face, due in large part to overpopulation, urbanization, and climate change. We reviewed the pressing issues in each of these nations, how black soldier fly production could help them, and which obstacles need to be cleared to make this possible. ABSTRACT: Organic waste such as food waste and livestock manure is a serious concern in the Pacific Islands, where landfills are overflowing and illegal dumping of waste threatens the fragile ecosystems. Organic waste also attracts filth flies, some of which are vectors for pathogens that cause human disease. The black soldier fly, Hermetia illucens, has tremendous potential for the Pacific Islands. Capable of digesting almost any organic matter and converting it into insect biomass, black soldier flies are already being used around the world to process organic waste into larvae. The system can be adapted to large-scale municipal composting as well as small sizes for individual livestock farms or even urban households. The larvae can be fed live to fish or poultry, processed into feed comparable to fishmeal or soy meal, or even used to generate biofuel. Thus, the fly not only eliminates waste, but also can improve the sustainability of livestock production. The Pacific Small Island Developing States stand to benefit immensely from black soldier fly bioconversion facilities, used primarily as a means to compost organic waste; however, several knowledge gaps must first be addressed. We reviewed the state of black soldier flies in the Pacific and identified where their use shows the most promise. Research priorities for the field include fly surveys and bioconversion assays using Pacific crop waste.