OBJECTIVE Fentanyl sublingual spray offers rapid pain relief in opioid-tolerant cancer patients, and may be useful in acute or post-operative pain. Both opioid-naïve and non-tolerant patients are likely to receive opioids in these settings. Understanding the relationship between systemic exposure of fentanyl sublingual spray and effects on respiratory function in opioid-naïve or non-tolerant populations is important to ensure patient safety. This study evaluated single-dose fentanyl sublingual spray in opioid-naïve participants. RESEARCH DESIGN Participants were randomized to receive single-dose fentanyl sublingual spray (100, 200, 400, 600, 800 mcg) or fentanyl citrate IV in one of five cohorts. Dosing occurred following a 10-h fast, with fasting continuing for 4 h post-dose. Dose proportionality was assessed using analysis of variance and linear regression techniques. PK assessments and safety monitoring were performed through 24 h post-dose. Safety assessments, including adverse event (AE) monitoring, occurred from dosing through Day 7. RESULTS Fifty participants (19-53 years) received fentanyl sublingual spray or fentanyl citrate IV. Mean maximum plasma concentrations were reached between 0.27-0.60 h post-dose for fentanyl sublingual spray. Peak (Cmax) and total (AUC0-t, AUC0-∞) fentanyl exposures increased in a linear, but more than dose-proportional manner, with higher doses. The most common AEs were somnolence, nausea, and vomiting. All AEs were mild or moderate in severity. Doses at 400, 600, and 800 mcg were associated with nausea and vomiting, requiring pharmacologic intervention. Hypoxia episodes requiring nasal cannula oxygenation were observed with 600mcg and 800mcg doses. CONCLUSIONS Overall, single-dose fentanyl sublingual spray (100-800 mcg) was generally well tolerated, with greater incidences of AEs (e.g. nausea, vomiting, hypoxia) at higher doses. Doses up to 200 mcg may be safely administered to healthy opioid-naïve individuals with routine monitoring; doses between 400-800 mcg may be administered in settings with nasal cannula oxygenation.