OBJECTIVES To evaluate the safety and efficacy of a live canarypox virus recombinant-canine distemper virus (CDV) combination vaccine against virulent CDV challenge exposure, and to document lack of interference among the other modified-live virus (MLV) components. ANIMALS 33 specific-pathogen-free (SPF) Beagle pups (7 to 10 weeks old). PROCEDURE A canarypox virus recombinant-CDV combination vaccine was tested for safety and efficacy along with MLV components (canine adenovirus type 2, canine coronavirus, canine parainfluenza virus, and canine parvovirus) in 26 SPF Beagle pups. The combination vaccine was rehydrated with either Leptospira canicola-L icterohaemorrhagiae combination bacterin (vaccine 1) or sterile diluent (vaccine 2). An additional group of 7 seronegative SPF pups received the control MLV components devoid of the combination vaccine (vaccine 3). Two vaccinations were administered 21 days apart, either IM or SC. The dose of the combination vaccine used to inoculate these pups was 40 times lower than the recommended commercial dose. At 21 days after the booster vaccination, all pups were challenge exposed with a virulent CDV strain, then were observed for 21 days to record morbidity and mortality. RESULTS Adverse local or generalized reactions were not induced by vaccinations. All vaccinates seroconverted to CDV. Serum antibody titers to MLV components were not different, with or without inclusion of the combination vaccine. After challenge exposure, morbidity and mortality in vaccinates were 0% (0/26); in control dogs, values were 100% morbidity and 86% mortality (6/7). Brain impression smear slides made from all dogs that did not survive challenge exposure were CDV positive by use of a direct fluorescein isothiocyanate method. CONCLUSIONS The canarypox virus-CDV combination vaccine, administered SC or IM, is a safe product that elicits CDV seroconversion, does not interfere with other vaccine components, and protects vaccinated pups against virulent CDV challenge exposure.