OBJECTIVES The objectives of this study were to derive Maine Coon haematological and biochemical reference intervals (RIs) from adult healthy blood donors, to validate (or reject) the use of published RIs for the general feline population in this breed, and to evaluate the effects of age, sex and weight on the haematological and biochemical results. METHODS Haematological and biochemical data were retrieved retrospectively from a database of 81 healthy adult Maine Coon cat blood donors and were analysed to generate normal RIs. RIs were determined and compared with established non-breed-specific feline RIs according to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute guidelines and the American Society of Veterinary Clinical Pathology guidelines using Reference Value-Advisor (version 2.1) software. RESULTS The age of the cats ranged from 1-8 years (mean 4.4 years), 42 were female and 39 were male, and weights ranged from 4.9-8.5 kg (mean 6.7 kg). New Maine Coon RIs were proposed for red blood cell count, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration, reticulocyte count and percentage. Haematocrit was higher in male cats (mean HCT 42.9% vs 41% in females; P = 0.001) and in heavier cats (P = 0.003; slope 1.0, regression equation HCT = 35.1 + 1.0 × weight). New biochemical RIs were proposed for urea, aspartate aminotransferase, γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), alkaline phosphatase, total protein and albumin in Maine Coons. Females had higher GGT (median GGT value in females 4.0 vs 3.0 in males; P = 0.011) and albumin values (mean albumin value 3.3 in females vs 3.1 in males; P = 0.013). CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Currently published RIs for some haematological and biochemical parameters are not appropriate for use in adult Maine Coon cats. A breed-specific variation could be a plausible explanation for the new haematological and serum biochemical analytes proposed in this study. Breed-specific RIs for Maine Coon cats will help prevent misinterpretation of laboratory results in diagnosis and in the selection of ideal blood donors.