The development of molecular syndrome-based kits for the diagnosis of respiratory infections offers rapid and sensitive detection of common respiratory pathogens and will have a significant impact on the care of patients. In this study, we present the results obtained after the introduction of the FilmArray respiratory panel in a field Point of care (POC) for the diagnosis of virus and bacteria responsible of respiratory tract infections in Senegal rural area. From February to August 2017, we collected nasal swabs from febrile patients that presented symptoms of respiratory tract infections in three health posts located in Niakhar. Specimens were tested on site by multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), using the FilmArray respiratory panel® that targets 20 pathogens, including 17 virus and 3 bacteria (bioMérieux). Nasal swabs were collected from 113 patients. The median age was 4 years (ranging from 4 months to 60 years) and 51 (45%) were males. The prevalence of respiratory pathogens was 37.5% (12/32) during the dry season and 54.3% (44/81) in the rainy season (p=0.16). The prevalence of respiratory pathogen carriage was higher in children under 5 years of age (38/55, 69.1%). The most prevalent micro-organisms detected were influenza B virus (16/113, 14%), human rhinovirus/enterovirus (10/113, 9%), parainfluenzae virus (9/113, 8%), respiratory syncytial virus (8/113, 7%), adenovirus (5/113, 4%), human metapneumovirus (3/113, 3%), Chlamydia pneumoniae (2/113, 2%) and Coronavirus (2/113, 2%). The study has demonstrated that the integration of the FilmArray respiratory panel into a field POC could significantly improve the management of respiratory tract infections in rural areas. Author summary Respiratory tract infections are one of the leading causes of death worldwide. Populations in underdeveloped countries are the most affected, especially children under 5 years of age. Among the pathogens responsible for these infections, bacteria and viruses are the most identified. In poor countries, laboratory diagnosis can only be done in urban areas. They are generally based on bacteriological, immunological or molecular biology techniques. The concept of POC is not developed in underdeveloped countries. Its existence would have made it possible to carry out RDTs to confirm the clinician’s diagnosis and allow rapid management of the patient. In the current situation, the time required to achieve results is often very long for patients. In this study, we sought to demonstrate the significant contribution of the FilmArray respiratory panel in the management of respiratory tract infections in rural areas. We also wanted to reduce the time it takes to deliver results in order to improve patient care. This dispositif was integrated in a field POC which was implemented in Niakhar since 2015, in order to improve the management of emerging diseases. The FilmArray respiratory panel gave us the opportunity to investigate the causes of respiratory tract infections in this area. For each patient, we systematically target 20 pathogens, including 17 viruses and 3 bacteria, with a single multiplex PCR. One of the main results of this study is that children under 5 years of age are the most affected by respiratory tract infections. Then we noted a lack of consultation among adults that could be explained by the banalization of respiratory problems or a preference for traditional care. The fact that children under 5 years of age are the most affected could also serve as a basis for implementing vaccination programmes directly targeting the most vulnerable age groups. It should be noted that for 51% of patients, the result of the diagnosis was negative. It would appear that some pathogens responsible for respiratory tract infections are not targeted by the multiplex PCR. Thus, it would be necessary to screen these pathogens in order to integrate them into a panel that would cover the most pathogens in circulation in this area.