BACKGROUND The first total laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed in 1994 by Gagner and Pomp. Their comments coupled with the inherent technical difficulties stifled development of the technique. In the last decade there has been a renewed interest in the technique with high volume centres publishing large series. We present our experience with the first operation completed at Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital. METHOD Pre-operative CT confirmed a resectable head of pancreas mass. The gastroduodenal artery (GDA) was noted to arise from the right hepatic artery which ran parallel and anterior to the bile duct. Five ports were used. After excluding metastases we proceeded to dissect the hepatoduodenal ligament. A combination of hook diathermy and Harmonic ACE+7® (Ethicon®) was used. We then entered the lesser sac and ligated the right gastroepiploic vessels and right gastric vessels. The stomach was transected with an Endo GIA® Black 60 mm (Covidien®). The duodenum was kocherized. The GDA was ligated with a Haemolok® (Teleflex®) clip. A retropancreatic tunnel was created the pancreas was transected with the energy device. The jejenum was transected 10 cm distal to the ligament of Treitz with an Endo GIA® Purple 45 mm and passed posterior to the SMA. The pancreaticojejenostomy was done as per Blumgart with a duct to mucosa anastomosis. The hepaticojejenostomy was completed with 4/0 PDS (Ethicon®) continuous. The gastrojejenostomy was completed with 3/0 Maxon (Covidien®). The specimen was retrieved via a 5 cm midline incision. Two pencil drains were placed. RESULTS The patient was transferred to ICU postoperatively. She developed a short period of delirium which resolved spontaneously. No bile or pancreatic leaks were noted. She was discharged on day 28. CONCLUSION Laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy is technically feasible despite the steep learning curve. The results from large series worldwide suggest a need to encourage and further develop the technique in South Africa.