Sensitization to human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) has been one of the major clinical challenges for successful kidney transplantation. In end-stage renal disease, kidney transplantation provides benefits compared with dialysis in terms of improved patient survival better quality of life, and lower ongoing costs after the first year. Living donor kidney transplantation has an advantage with improved allograft survival, and performed earlier and electively compared with deceased donor transplantation. However sensitized patients are increasing in number on transplant waiting lists, and their prospect of getting a transplant is less than nonsensitized patients due to immunological incompatibility with the donor. Strategy for sensitized patients are listing for a compatible deceased donor transplant or, if they have a living donor, either selecting a kidney exchange program or undergoing a desensitization procedure. Desensitization procedures may be undertaken to increase access to either living or deceased donor transplants, and in some situations may also be employed to facilitate participation in a kidney exchange, in less immunological barrier to be overcome. The question of whether individuals are better off with a desensitization treatment followed by HLA-incompatible living donor transplantation or waiting on the deceased donor kidney transplant list for a compatible transplant has recently been addressed by two large multicenter studies, with conflicting results. A multicenter study from the United States published in the New England Journal of Medicine [365;318 326.2011] concluded that there was a strong survival benefit for sensitized patients undergoing desensitization followed by HLA-incompatible living donor kidney transplant compared with those remaining on the waiting list. Of interest, a second study, published in the Lancet, [389;727 734.2017] found no significant survival advantage for desensitized patients compared with similar patients remaining on the waiting list in the United Kingdom. Controversies still remain regarding how desensitization can be achieved and which techniques are effective and safe. In this chapter various complications from the desensitization will be dealt with in current use of medications or armamentum.