ABSTRACT Objective Bedside chest ultrasound, when integrated with clinical data, is an accurate tool improving the diagnostic process of many respiratory diseases. This study aims to evaluate the feasibility of a chest ultrasound screening program in nursing homes for detecting coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19)-related pneumonia and improving the appropriateness of hospital referral of residents. Design Pragmatic, descriptive, feasibility study from April 2nd to April 9th, 2020. Setting and participants: A total of 83 older residents (age 85±8) presenting mild to moderate respiratory symptoms and not previously tested for COVID-19, residing in five nursing homes in Northern Italy. Methods Chest ultrasound was performed at the bedside by a team of hospital specialists with certified expertise in thoracic ultrasonography, following a systematic approach exploring four different areas for each hemithorax, from the anterior and posterior side. Presence of ultrasonographic signs of interstitial pneumonia, including comet-tail artifacts (B-lines) with focal or diffuse distribution, subpleural consolidations and pleural line indentation was detected. The specialist team integrated ultrasound data with clinical and anamnestic information, and gave personalized therapeutic advice for each patient, including hospital referral when needed. Results The most frequent reasons for ultrasound evaluation were fever (63% of participants) and mild dyspnea (40%). Fifty-six patients (67%) had abnormal ultrasound findings. The most common patterns were presence of multiple subpleural consolidations (32 patients) and diffuse B-lines (24 patients), with bilateral involvement. A diagnosis of suspect COVID-19 pneumonia was made in 44 patients, and six of them required hospitalization. Twelve patients had ultrasound patterns suggesting other respiratory diseases, and two patients with normal ultrasound findings were diagnosed with COPD exacerbation. Conclusions and implications In nursing home residents, screening of COVID-19 pneumonia with bedside chest ultrasonography is feasible and may represent a valid diagnostic aid for an early detection of COVID-19 outbreaks and adequate patient management.