The COVID-19 pandemic and the consequential societal changes are likely to have major health consequences way beyond those caused by the virus infection. One of the medical fields that may experience significant consequences of the pandemic is that of psychiatry. Importantly, individuals who already live with mental disorders may be particularly vulnerable to the psychological stress associated with the pandemic. However, data on how the COVID-19 pandemic affects this group of people is largely absent from the literature. Here, we report data from a quality development project conducted at the psychiatric services of the Central Denmark Region (CDR), which has a catchment area of approximately 1.3 million people covered by five psychiatric hospitals providing inpatient and outpatient treatment of all types of mental disorders. Based on a manual screening of all clinical notes from the period from February 1st to March 23rd 2020 that contained at least one of the following words: corona, COVID, virus, epidemic, pandemic, and contaminate/contamination (including compound words), we found 1357 notes from 918 adult patients that described pandemic-related psychopathology (symptoms that appeared to be caused/deteriorated by the pandemic and/or its societal consequences). To our knowledge, this is the first investigation of COVID-19 pandemic-related psychopathology from a large psychiatric treatment setting. The results clearly suggest that this phenomenon exists among individuals with mental illness. However, as the data from this investigation stems from standard clinical practice where the patients were not systematically assessed for pandemic-related psychopathology, we cannot speak to its overall prevalence. Nevertheless, we believe that our findings underline the necessity of taking urgent action to mitigate the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with mental disorders. A low-cost intervention would be to simply discuss the ongoing pandemic and its societal consequences with patients seeking care in psychiatric settings - as this may lead to relief of pandemic-related symptoms via general comforting, and clarification of misunderstandings/false beliefs regarding the pandemic.