OBJECTIVE The effects of the Covid-19 health emergency have demonstrated the high vulnerability of people residing in medium and long-stay centers, with high mortality rates. Little data is available about contingency protocols to minimize the spread of the virus in these centers. The goal of this study was to describe the clinical and epidemiological features of patients affected by SARS-CoV-2 and the preventive and management measures adopted at the National Hospital for Paraplegics (Toledo, Castilla-La Mancha, Spain) to minimize the risk of transmission of Covid-19. METHODS A team of specialists in Preventive and Internal Medicine established a protocol for active surveillance, identification of suspected and confirmed cases, and follow-up of contacts. Also, a Unit for the care of confirmed cases was created with personnel specifically trained in Covid-19, to achieve better patient care and optimize the available resources. Descriptive statistical measures have been used to analyze the data. RESULTS The prevalence of Covid-19 was 12.2%, with a cumulative incidence of 8.2%. After the protocol was established, control of the disease was achieved without hospital transmission after its application. Due to the alarm generated at the start of the pandemic, up to 45% of the requested RT-PCRs did not meet the criteria of the Ministry of Health, all of which were negative. The clinical characteristics of our patients differed slightly from those observed in other studies published in the general population, with cough and asthenia being the most frequent symptoms, present in 69.2% and 38.5%, respectively. 100% of the infected patients did not present complications that required assistance in the Intensive Care Unit. CONCLUSIONS With the application of preventive and organizational actions, we consider that we have presented a low incidence of those infected. The preparation of protocols and their supervision is essential for the rapid identification of cases and optimization of the tests requested. Despite being a medium and long-stay hospital, we have not presented any mortality or complications that required admission to the Intensive Care Unit.