BACKGROUND: The FOLFOX regimen, i.e., folinic acid (FOL), fluorouracil (F) and oxaliplatin (OX), is a drug cocktail that is used to treat gastric and colorectal cancers. Despite the concomitant improvements in response rate, duration of response and patient survival, reports of serious toxic pulmonary side effects have progressively emerged. CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a patient who was treated with FOLFOX as an adjuvant to a rectosigmoidal resection of a rectosigmoidal carcinoma and who developed respiratory insufficiency requiring mechanical ventilation. Computed tomography (CT) imaging and open lung biopsy findings were compatible with interstitial pneumonia (IP). She received multimodal combination treatment (acetylcysteine, corticosteroids, immune globulins and cyclophosphamide) and survived. We performed a systematic literature search and reviewed all 45 reported cases of FOLFOX-related lung toxicity and/or pulmonary fibrosis for their clinical characteristics and their outcomes related to therapy. CONCLUSIONS: We found that for the 45 cases with available data, the median age was 70 years, and the male–female ratio was 3.5: 1. In the patients exhibiting only mild respiratory symptoms, discontinuation of the culprit drug (oxaliplatin) resulted in a 100% regression of the symptoms. However the prognosis of the respiratory insufficient patient proved to be grim: death occurred in 76.9% of the cases despite conventional treatment with corticosteroids. We therefore urge oncologists and critical care specialists not to limit their interventions to the discontinuation of chemotherapy, artificial ventilation, corticosteroids and glutathione replenishment and to consider the gradual introduction of additional immune-modulating agents whenever life-threatening respiratory symptoms in oxaliplatin-treated patients do not subside; all the more so considering the fact that our analysis showed that every patient who survived intubation and mechanical ventilation experienced a full clinical recovery.