Here we present a general compartment model with a time-varying transmission rate to describe the dynamics of the COVID-19 epidemic, parameterized with the demographics of Bahia, a state in northeast Brazil. The dynamics of the model are influenced by the number of asymptomatic cases, hospitalization requirements and mortality due to the disease. A locally-informed model was determined using actual hospitalization records. Together with cases and casualty data, optimized estimates for model parameters were obtained within a metaheuristic framework based on Particle Swarm Optimization. Our strategy is supported by a statistical sensitivity analysis on the model parameters, adequate to properly account for the simulated scenarios. First, we evaluated the effect of previously enforced interventions on the transmission rate. Then, we studied its effects on the number of deaths as well as hospitalization requirements, considering the state as a whole. Special attention is given to the impact of asymptomatic individuals on the dynamic of COVID-19 transmission, as these were estimated to contribute to a 68% increase in the basic reproductive number. Finally, we delineated scenarios that can set guides to protect the health care system, particularly by keeping demand below total bed occupancy. Our results underscore the challenges related to maintaining a fully capable health infrastructure during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, specially in a low-resource setting such as the one focused in this work. The evidences produced by our modelling-based analysis show that decreasing the transmission rate is paramount to success in maintaining health resources availability, but that current local efforts, leading to a 38% decrease in the transmission rate, are still insufficient to prevent its collapse at peak demand. Carefully planned and timely applied interventions, that result in stark decreases in transmission rate, were found to be the most effective in preventing hospital bed shortages for the longest periods.