BACKGROUND: Approximately 30% of children worldwide are infected with gastrointestinal parasites. Depending on the species, parasites can disrupt intestinal bacterial microbiota affecting essential vitamin biosynthesis. METHODS: Stool samples were collected from 37 asymptomatic children from a previous cross-sectional Argentinian study. A multi-parallel real-time quantitative PCR was implemented for Ascaris lumbricoides, Ancylostoma duodenale, Necator americanus, Strongyloides stercoralis, Trichuris trichiura, Cryptosporidium spp., Entamoeba histolytica and Giardia duodenalis. In addition, whole-genome sequencing analysis was conducted for bacterial microbiota on all samples and analyzed using Livermore Metagenomic Analysis Toolkit and DIAMOND software. Separate analyses were carried out for uninfected, Giardia-only, Giardia + helminth co-infections, and helminth-only groups. RESULTS: For Giardia-only infected children compared to uninfected children, DNA sequencing data showed a decrease in microbiota biodiversity that correlated with increasing Giardia burden and was statistically significant using Shannonʼs alpha diversity (Giardia-only > 1 fg/µl 2.346; non-infected group 3.253, P = 0.0317). An increase in diversity was observed for helminth-only infections with a decrease in diversity for Giardia + helminth co-infections (P = 0.00178). In Giardia-only infections, microbiome taxonomy changed from Firmicutes towards increasing proportions of Prevotella, with the degree of change related to the intensity of infection compared to uninfected (P = 0.0317). The abundance of Prevotella bacteria was decreased in the helminths-only group but increased for Giardia + helminth co-infections (P = 0.0262). Metagenomic analysis determined cobalamin synthesis was decreased in the Giardia > 1 fg/µl group compared to both the Giardia < 1 fg/µl and the uninfected group (P = 0.0369). Giardia + helminth group also had a decrease in cobalamin CbiM genes from helminth-only infections (P = 0.000754). CONCLUSION: The study results may provide evidence for an effect of parasitic infections enabling the permissive growth of anaerobic bacteria such as Prevotella, suggesting an altered capacity of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) biosynthesis and potential impact on growth and development in children [Image: see text].