Adjustment disorder with anxiety (ADA) is a common psychiatric pathology worldwide, but it is often undertreated. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the first-line treatment, but very few studies have been carried out for the treatment of ADA. Internet-delivered CBT (iCBT) appears to be an effective treatment option, with the potential to reach a larger proportion of individuals suffering from ADA. Guidance is a beneficial feature of iCBT, provided in most studies by email or telephone (traditional guided iCBT). Blended CBT, which combines an online intervention and therapeutic guidance provided in person (face-to-face), could be a way to benefit from both the advantages of face-to-face CBT regarding human interactional quality and the advantages of internet-based CBT in terms of improved access to treatment. In this randomized controlled trial, the effectiveness of two forms of administration of Seren@ctif, a 5-week CBT program for patients with ADA according the DSM-5, was examined: one delivered through face-to-face sessions (face-to-face CBT) and the other delivered online and guided with face-to-face contact with a nurse (blended CBT); these formats were compared with a wait-list control group (WLC). A total of 120 patients were included and randomized to one of these three conditions. Measures were administered before treatment, after treatment and 6 months after inclusion in the study. Both treatment conditions displayed significant decreases in anxiety, depression, worry and perceived stress at posttreatment when compared to the WLC group. The decrease in symptoms was mostly maintained 6 months after inclusion for the two experimental groups. Blended CBT showed significantly greater reductions in anxiety and depression than did face-to-face CBT on some secondary outcome measures. We conclude that both face-to-face CBT and blended CBT are effective treatments for patients with ADA, and we suggest that blended CBT may be slightly more effective than classical face-to-face CBT. Trial Registration: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02621775;https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02621775(Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6tQrkPs1u).