The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic of 2020 has mobilised scientists around the globe to research all aspects of the coronavirus virus and its infection. For fruitful and rapid investigation of viral pathomechanisms, a collaborative and interdisciplinary approach is required. Therefore, we have developed ViralLink: a systems biology workflow which reconstructs and analyses networks representing the effect of viruses on intracellular signalling. These networks trace the flow of signal from intracellular viral proteins through their human binding proteins and downstream signalling pathways, ending with transcription factors regulating genes differentially expressed upon viral exposure. In this way, the workflow provides a mechanistic insight from previously identified knowledge of virally infected cells. By default, the workflow is set up to analyse the intracellular effects of SARS-CoV-2, requiring only transcriptomics counts data as input from the user: thus, encouraging and enabling rapid multidisciplinary research. However, the wide-ranging applicability and modularity of the workflow facilitates customisation of viral context, a priori interactions and analysis methods. Through a case study of SARS-CoV-2 infected bronchial/tracheal epithelial cells, we evidence the functionality of the workflow and its ability to identify key pathways and proteins in the cellular response to infection. The application of ViralLink to different viral infections in a cell-type specific manner using different available transcriptomics datasets will uncover key mechanisms in viral pathogenesis. The workflow is available on GitHub (https://github.com/korcsmarosgroup/ViralLink) in an easily accessible Python wrapper script, or as customisable modular R and Python scripts. Author summary Collaborative and multidisciplinary science provides increased value for experimental datasets and speeds the process of discovery. Such ways of working are especially important at present due to the urgency of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Here, we present a systems biology workflow which models the effect of viral proteins on the infected host cell, to aid collaborative and multidisciplinary research. Through integration of gene expression datasets with context-specific and context-agnostic molecular interaction datasets, the workflow can be easily applied to different datasets as they are made available. Application to diverse SARS-CoV-2 datasets will increase our understanding of the mechanistic details of the infection at a cell type specific level, aid drug target discovery and help explain the variety of clinical manifestations of the infection.