PURPOSE The purpose of this study is to evaluate the histologic response to fibrin sealant (FS) as an alternative fixation method for laparoscopic ventral hernia repair. METHODS One non-absorbable barrier mesh (Composix™) and three absorbable barrier meshes (Sepramesh™, Proceed™, and Parietex™ Composite) were used for the study, with uncoated macroporous polypropylene mesh (ProLite Ultra™) as the control. Three methods of fixation were used: #0-polypropylene suture + FS (ARTISS™, Baxter Healthcare Corp.), FS alone (ARTISS™), or tacks alone (n = 10 for each group). Two pieces of mesh (of dimensions 4 × 4-cm) were secured intraperitoneally in 75 New Zealand white rabbits. After 8 weeks, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained specimens were evaluated for host tissue response. Statistical significance (P < 0.05) was determined using a one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Fisher's least significant difference (LSD) post hoc test. RESULTS Composix™ with FS only showed significantly greater cellular infiltration than with suture + FS (P = 0.0007), Proceed™ with FS only had significantly greater neovascularization than with suture + FS (P = 0.0172), and ProLite Ultra™ with suture + FS had significantly greater neovascularization than with tacks only (P = 0.046). Differences due to mesh type showed that Composix™ exhibited less extensive cellular infiltration (P ≤ 0.0032), extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition, and neovascularization, and demonstrated less inflammatory cells and more fibroblasts compared to the other meshes (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS FS did not have a significant histologic effect compared to tacks when utilized for the fixation of mesh to the peritoneum of New Zealand White rabbits. However, the mesh type did have a significant histologic effect. The permanent barrier mesh (Composix™) was associated with less histologic incorporation than absorbable barrier and macroporous meshes, as evidenced by lower levels of cellular infiltration, ECM deposition, and neovascularization, independent of the fixation method used.