Until today, computed tomography (CT) is the most important and valuable radiological modality to detect, analyze, and diagnose diffuse interstitial lung diseases (DILD), based on the unsurpassed morphological detail provided by high-resolution CT technique. In the past decade, there has been a shift from an isolated histopathological diagnosis to a multidisciplinary acquired diagnosis consensus that is nowadays regarded to provide the highest level of diagnostic accuracy in patients with diffuse interstitial lung diseases. The 2002 ATS/ERS statement on classification of idiopathic interstitial pneumonias assigned a central role to high-resolution CT (HRCT) in the diagnostic workup of idiopathic interstitial pneumonias (ATS/ERS consensus classification 2002). The more recent 2013 ERS/ATS statement reinforced that combined clinical data (presentation, exposures, smoking status, associated diseases, lung function, and laboratory findings) and radiological findings are essential for a multidisciplinary diagnosis (Travis et al., Am J Respir Crit Care Med 188(6):733–748, 2013). The traditional HRCT consisted of discontinuous 1 mm high-resolution axial slices. The primary focus was on visual pattern analysis demanding for the highest possible spatial resolution. Because of the intrinsic high structural contrast of the lung, it has been possible to substantially reduce dose without losing diagnostic information. This development has been supported by new detection and reconstruction techniques. Not only detection of subtle disease and visual comparison of disease stage but also disease classification and quantification nowadays take advantage of continuous volumetric data acquisition provided by multidetector row (MD) CT technique. The following book chapter will focus on acquisition technique with special emphasis on dose and reconstruction, advantages, and new diagnostic options of volumetric MDCT technique for interstitial lung diseases. Based on evidence from the literature, certain diseases will be covered more specifically, but it has to be noted that for the pattern analysis of the various interstitial lung diseases, the plethora of other publications and books is recommended.