BACKGROUND Previous studies suggest that pathways reducing oxidative stress may have a protective effect against adverse cardiac responses associated with ambient PM. However, few studies have directly assessed total antioxidant capacity (TAC) as a potential effect modifier of cardiac responses to increased ambient PM. OBJECTIVES We examined if TAC modifies the association between ambient PM and markers of heart rate variability (HRV), repolarization, systemic inflammation, and systolic blood pressure (SBP) in post-infarction patients. METHODS We recruited 76 patients with a recent coronary event (myocardial infarction or unstable angina) who participated in a cardiac rehabilitation program from June 2006 to November 2009 in Rochester, New York. Ambient fine particle (PM2.5,≤2.5µm in aerodynamic diameter), accumulation mode particle (AMP, 100-500nm) and ultrafine particle (UFP, 10-100nm) concentrations were measured continuously by fixed-site monitors. Markers of HRV and repolarization were measured by continuous Holter electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings before and during exercise sessions of the rehabilitation program. Blood pressure was measured and venous blood samples were collected before exercise to measure TAC and inflammation markers. We applied linear mixed models to assess changes in markers of HRV, repolarization, systemic inflammation, and SBP associated with increased PM concentrations in the low, medium and high TAC tertile groups, after adjusting for covariates including temperature, calendar time since the beginning of the study, visit number, month of year, and hour of day. RESULTS Based on subject-visits with available TAC, we observed increases in SBP, C-reactive protein, and fibrinogen, and decreases in rMSSD (square root of the mean of the sum of the squared differences between adjacent normal to normal intervals) and SDNN (standard deviation of normal to normal beat intervals) associated with increased PM2.5, AMP and UFP in the previous 6-120h (e.g. change in SBP associated with each interquartile range (IQR) increase in PM2.5 lagged 0-5h was 1.27mmHg [95%CI: 0.09, 2.46mmHg]). However, we did not observe a consistent pattern of effect measure modification by TAC for any combination of pollutant and outcome (e.g. changes in SBP associated with each IQR increase in PM2.5 lagged 0-5h for the low, medium and high TAC tertile groups were 1.93mmHg [95%CI: 0.23, 3.63 mmHg], -0.31 mmHg [95%CI: -2.62, 2.01 mmHg], and 1.29mmHg [95%CI: -0.64, 3.21 mmHg], respectively. P for interaction=0.28). CONCLUSIONS In a post-infarction population, total antioxidant capacity does not appear to modify the association between biomarkers of heart rate variability, repolarization, systemic inflammation, and systolic blood pressure and ambient PM concentrations in the previous 6-120h.