The aim of the present study was to identify differentially expressed B‑cell‑associated genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and investigate the gene expression characteristics of the different stages of B‑cell activation. A total of 20 patients with pulmonary embolisms (PE) and 20 age‑ and gender‑matched controls were enrolled in the present study. Human complementary DNA microarray analysis was used in order to detect the differential expression of B‑cell‑associated genes between the PE and control groups. Messenger (m)RNA expression was detected for 82 genes involved in B‑cell activation. The results showed that PE patients exhibited significantly increased expression levels of the B‑cell receptor genes LYN, CD22, SYK, BTK, PTPRC and NFAM1, whereas expression levels of FYN, FCRL4 and LAX1 were significantly decreased compared to those of the control group. Expression levels of T‑cell‑dependent B‑cell‑activation genes, including EMR2, TNFSF9, CD86, ICOSLG, CD37 and CD97, were significantly upregulated in PE patients, whereas SPN mRNA expression was significantly downregulated compared with those of the control group. LILRA1 and TLR9 T cell‑independent B‑cell activation mRNAs were significantly upregulated in PE patients compared with those of the control group. In addition, the expression levels of B‑cell‑activation regulator genes, including CR1, LILRB4 and VAV1, were significantly increased, whereas SLAMF7 expression levels were significantly decreased in PE patients compared with those of the control group. Furthermore, the expression levels of B‑cell‑activation‑associated cytokine genes demonstrated a significant upregulation of LTA and IL10 and downregulation of L1A, IFNA5, IFNA6, IFNA8, IFNA14, IL2, IL13 and IFNG in PE patients compared to those of the control group. In conclusion, the differential gene expression at different stages of B‑cell activation between healthy controls and PE patients indicated that B‑cell function was reduced or disorganized in patients with symptomatic PE.