The intersection of technological changes and societal evolution has transformed every aspect of human life. Technological advancements are transforming how healthcare knowledge is expanding and accelerating the outreach of critical medical services delivery (Jamal et al. in Health Information Management Journal 38(3):26–37, 2009). While this transformation facilitates new opportunities simultaneously it also introduces challenges (Jacobzone and Oxley, 2001). Appropriate Health Technology (HT) is vital to new and existing global health care programs. Therefore, qualified professionals who can safely guide the development, evaluation, installation, integration, performance assurance, and risk mitigation of HT must be in position to lead. Trained Clinical Engineers (CE) and Biomedical Engineers (BE) have been recognized by the World Health Organization (WHO) as the essential practitioners to providing this critically needed guidance. Over the past four years, a senior professional group participated in an international project that seeks evidence for the hypothesis - that the engagement of CE and BE in guiding HT - impacts positively on patient outcomes, while the alternative is that there is no difference. The group collected published data that was subjected to peer review screening; additional data qualification conditions are described in this paper. The project was initiated at the Global CE Summit during the first International Clinical Engineering and Health Technology Management Congress (ICEHTMC) in Hangzhou, China in October 2015 (Global Clinical Engineering Summit at the First International Clinical Engineering and Health Technology Management Congress, 2015). Following the adoption of a resolution to investigate CE contributions to the improvement of world health status, an international survey and literature survey were initiated. During the first two years of this project 150 case studies from 90 countries were identified covering the previous ten years. The results of this survey were presented to health leaders at the World Health Organization (WHO) World Health Assembly in 2016. Last year, 250 case studies were added including 35 more countries covering the 2016–2017 period. The combined project contains 400 qualified submissions from 125 countries. The conclusion was that engagement of CE and BME is critical for successful investment in HT and for achieving intended patient outcomes. This paper describes the project’s plan, the results of the literature review performed, and the evidence identified during the process.