Patients with moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) benefit from prone positioning. Although the accuracy of esophageal pressure (Pes) to estimate regional pleural pressure (Ppl) has previously been assessed in the supine position, such data are not available in the prone position in ARDS. In six anesthetized, paralyzed, and mechanically ventilated female pigs, we measured Pes and Ppl into dorsal and ventral parts of the right pleural cavity. Airway pressure (Paw) and flow were measured at the airway opening. Severe ARDS [arterial partial pressure of oxygen ([Formula: see text])/fraction of inspired oxygen ([Formula: see text]) < 100 mmHg at positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 5 cmH(2)O] was induced by surfactant depletion. In supine and prone positions assigned in a random order, PEEP was set to 20, 15, 10, and 5 cmH(2)O and static end-expiratory chest wall pressures were measured from Pes (PEEPtot,es) and dorsal (PEEPtot,PplD) and ventral (PEEPtot,PplV) Ppl. The magnitude of the difference between PEEPtot,es and PEEPtot,PplD was similar in each position [−3.6 cmH(2)O in supine vs. −3.8 cmH(2)O in prone at PEEP 20 cmH(2)O (PEEP 20)]. The difference between PEEPtot,es and PEEPtot,PplV became narrower in the prone position (−8.3 cmH(2)O supine vs. −3.0 cmH(2)O prone at PEEP 20). PEEPtot,PplV was overestimated by Pes in the prone position at higher pressures. The median (1st–3rd quartiles) dorsal-to-ventral Ppl gradient was 4.4 (2.4–6.8) cmH(2)O in the supine position and −1.5 (−3.5 to +1.1) cmH(2)O in the prone position (P < 0.0001) and marginally influenced by PEEP (P = 0.058). Prone position narrowed end-expiratory dorsal-to-ventral Ppl vertical gradient, likely because of a more even distribution of mechanical forces over the chest wall. NEW & NOTEWORTHY In a porcine model of acute respiratory distress syndrome, we found that static end-expiratory esophageal pressure did not change significantly in prone position compared with supine position at any positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) tested between 5 and 20 cmH(2)O. Prone position was associated with an increased ventral pleural pressure and reduced end-expiratory dorsal-to-ventral pleural pressure (Ppl) vertical gradient, likely due to a more even distribution of mechanical forces over the chest wall.