BACKGROUND: While the importance of pharmacists’ involvement in disaster management is becoming increasingly recognised in the literature, there remains little research on methods for preparing pharmacists and pharmacy staff for disasters. Objective(s): To investigate the use of a table-top disaster exercise to improve disaster awareness and preparedness for pharmacists and pharmacy staff attending The Society of Hospital Pharmacists of Australia (SHPA) Medicine Management conference 2019. METHODS: A table-top disaster exercise was developed by the research team and presented as a workshop at the SHPA's annual conference in 2019. The workshop presented attendees with the hypothetical ‘Cyclone Oma’ that was tracking across the fictional state of ‘New Cardiff’. Each workshop table was assigned a different hospital and was required to respond to Cyclone Oma as the scenario evolved. Workshop attendees were invited to complete a pre- and post-survey assessing their perceptions of disaster management and preparedness for pharmacists and pharmacy staff. RESULTS: The pre- and post-workshop survey was completed by 41 out of the 47 attendees. Participants’ assessments of their understanding of disaster management activities increased after attending the workshop (p < 0.001). Most participants felt the workshop improved their understanding of their role in a disaster (87.8%, 36/41) and allowed them to identify their strengths and weaknesses in disaster management (90.2%, 37/41). The workshop was well received with 92.7% (38/41) of participants stating they would like further continuing professional development opportunities in disaster management. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first disaster table-top exercise in Australia targeted specifically at the pharmacy workforce to be conducted and evaluated. The exercise improved understanding of disaster management and was well received by the participants. This research calls for further education and training opportunities in disaster management targeted at the pharmacy workforce.