BACKGROUND Although laparoscopic surgery is frequently performed for the treatment of gastric cancer, laparoscopic total gastrectomy is not widely performed because of its technical difficulty. Since December 2007 we have performed esophagojejunostomy after totally laparoscopic total gastrectomy (TLTG) in more than 110 cases in our institution by using a circular stapler with a trans-orally inserted anvil. We performed a single-center comparative study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of esophagojejunostomy using a trans-orally inserted anvil in patients who underwent TLTG for the treatment of gastric cancer. METHODS In the present study, we examined 329 patients with gastric cancer who underwent esophagojejunostomy using a circular stapler after total gastrectomy. Data on the clinicopathological features, operative time, amount of intraoperative blood loss, and incidence of anastomosis-related complications among the surgical groups were obtained by reviewing the medical records, which were then analyzed. RESULTS Approximately 67% of the patients were men, and the average patient age was 64.0 years (range 26-93 years). In addition, 166 (50.5%) and 163 (49.5%) patients underwent open and laparoscopic surgery, respectively. Leakage following esophagojejunostomy was noted in 7 (4.2%) of 166 patients who underwent total gastrectomy with open laparotomy, and 0 of 46 patients who underwent laparoscopic-assisted total gastrectomy (LATG). However, only 2 (1.7%) of 117 patients who underwent TLTG using a trans-orally inserted anvil exhibited leakage following esophagojejunostomy. Anastomotic stenosis of the esophagojejunostomy was observed in 5 (3.0%) of 166 patients who underwent total gastrectomy with open laparotomy, 2 (4.3%) of 46 patients who underwent LATG, and 2 (1.7%) of 117 patients who underwent TLTG using a trans-orally inserted anvil. CONCLUSIONS We believe that esophagojejunostomy using a trans-orally inserted anvil after TLTG for gastric cancer is a safe and useful surgical procedure.