In the monitoring of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSv), knowledge about between-farm transmission dynamics is still lacking. Our objective was to assess the relative contribution of between-farm PRRSv transmission routes through a mechanistic epidemiological model calibrated with PRRSv occurrence, identify risk areas, and estimate the impact of immunization strategies in the disease spread. We developed a mathematical model of PRRSv transmission accounting for spatial proximity, pig movements, and re-breaks in sow farms, parametrized on data collected routinely by commercial pig farms. We then used the model to simulate the weekly frequency of cases and built risk maps, and compared with the observed cases. We simulated the implementation of two immunization strategies (preventive and reactive) to mitigate the between-farm transmission. Our results indicated for sow and GDU farms’ local spread on average was above 60%, while for nurseries between-farm movements represented 83% of transmissions and in finisher farms it was distributed almost 50% local and 50% between-farm movement, the model allowed reproduce the weekly frequency of observed cases and the risk maps built allowed the identification of observed cases in the space. The increase in vaccine efficacy was the most important parameter to mitigate between-farm transmission. Also, the implementation of immunization by a preventive and reactive strategy combined had the better result to mitigate between-farm transmission than implement these strategies individually. These immunization strategies had a better performance with the use of rigorous protocols, such as immunization as soon as the farm receives a shipment or increase the detection coverage in all production types, as well as reduce time of disease detection. This model can be used by the pork producers to improve surveillance activities, enhancing the capacities to early detect circulation not only of endemic disease but also foreign animal diseases (FADs).