BACKGROUND Over the past decades, there has been an increase in overweight and obesity in women of childbearing age, as well as the general population. Overweight and obesity are related to a later, increased risk of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Increasing weight between pregnancies has a negative impact on the development of the fetus in a subsequent pregnancy. It is also related to long-term obesity and overweight for the woman. Accordingly, weight control in women of the childbearing age is important for both women and their offspring. Information and communication technology (ICT) has become an integrated part of many peoples' lives, and it has the potential to prevent disease. In this systematic review, we summarize the evidence from randomized controlled trials to compare effects of different ICT-based interventions to support postpartum women to achieve weight loss. METHODS A systematic search was performed in PubMed, Embase, PsycInfo, CINAHL, Web of Science, Scopus, and Cochrane, searching on terms, such as postpartum, weight loss, telemedicine, and randomized controlled trials. Two independent researchers undertook study selection and data extraction. Results were reported narratively. The systematic review only included studies that were randomized controlled trials. RESULTS Eight studies were included in the systematic review. All of them were characterized by applying one or more ICT components to assist postpartum women in weight control, and had weight loss as an outcome measure. A significant difference was found in weight loss between control group and intervention group in the majority of the studies. However, five of the studies had a relatively short follow-up period (40 days to 16 weeks), six of the studies had a relatively small sample size (18 to 66 women), and half of the studies indicated challenges with adherence to the interventions over time. CONCLUSION ICT-based interventions can support postpartum women to achieve a healthy lifestyle and weight control. Future studies should focus on larger sample sizes, longer follow-up periods, and adherence to the interventions. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION PROSPERO CRD42018080731.