INTRODUCTION Umbilical laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) surgery represents an excellent alternative to laparoscopic or robotic multiport surgery. LESS surgery offers faster recovery, less postoperative pain and optimal cosmetic results. The reusable nature of its instruments also has significant economic advantages. PATIENT AND METHOD We present a 34-year-old patient with a solid mesorenal lesion measuring 8 cm in the left kidney treated with pure LESS radical nephrectomy assisted by vaginal extraction of the specimen. The umbilical approach using a single-site multichannel KeyPort (Richard Wolf GmbH, Knittlingen, Germany) with DuoRotate curved instruments allows for minimum crushing and fewer spatial conflicts. Its perfect umbilical adaptation provides a hermetic system. The instrument's double rotation provides considerable movement precision. Vaginal extraction avoids damage to the abdominal wall and the need for widening the umbilical incision. RESULTS After the placement of the device and triangulation of the clips, we proceeded to operate on posterior parietal peritoneum. The descending colon was mobilized to access the retroperitoneum and dissect the renal hilum. Hem-o-lok clips were placed on the artery and vein, which were subsequently sectioned. The specimen was inserted into a laparoscopic bag. Under direct vision, we placed a 15-mm trocar through the bottom of the vaginal posterior fornix to facilitate the extraction of the bag's thread. The incision was widened with the fingers, and the specimen was extracted, closing the vagina from the perineum with visualization from the navel. Abdominal drainage was not employed. The surgical time was 180 min. The patient was discharged the following day without needing analgesia. A year later, the patient was disease-free and had no complications. CONCLUSIONS Umbilical LESS radical nephrectomy with vaginal extraction is feasible in selected cases. The procedure is oncologically safe, avoids scars and facilitates early recovery. From a practical point of view, this approach greatly simplifies natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) and enables a minimally invasive equivalent result.