STUDY DESIGN Systematic review. INTRODUCTION The Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire has multiple language versions from many countries around the world. In addition there is extensive research evidence of its psychometric properties. PURPOSE OF THE STUDY The purpose of this study was to systematically review the evidence available on the validity and clinical utility of the Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand as a measure of activity and participation in patients with musculoskeletal hand injuries in developing country contexts. METHODS We registered the review with international prospective register of systematic reviews prior to conducting a comprehensive literature search and extracting descriptive data. Two reviewers independently assessed methodological quality with the Consensus-Based Standards for the Selection of Health Measurement Instruments critical appraisal tool, the checklist to operationalize measurement characteristics of patient-rated outcome measures and the multidimensional model of clinical utility. RESULTS Fourteen studies reporting 12 language versions met the eligibility criteria. Two language versions (Persian and Turkish) had an overall rating of good, and one (Thai) had an overall rating of excellent for cross-cultural validity. The remaining 9 language versions had an overall poor rating for cross-cultural validity. Content and construct validity and clinical utility yielded similar results. DISCUSSION/CONCLUSIONS Poor quality ratings for validity and clinical utility were due to insufficient documentation of results and inadequate psychometric testing. With the increase in migration and globalization, hand therapists are likely to require a range of culturally adapted and translated versions of the Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand. Recommendations include rigorous application and reporting of cross-cultural adaptation, appropriate psychometric testing, and testing of clinical utility in routine clinical practice.