OBJECTIVE To investigate the effect of methotrexate (MTX) or salpingectomy for ectopic pregnancy on the outcomes of subsequent in vitro fertilization (IVF)-embryo transfer (ET) cycles. DESIGN Retrospective cohort study (Canadian Task Force Classification II-3). SETTING Academic center. PATIENTS All patients undergoing fresh IVF-ET between January 2004 and July 2013 after treatment of an ectopic pregnancy with MTX or salpingectomy in the preceding IVF-ET cycle were analyzed for potential inclusion. INTERVENTION MTX or laparoscopic salpingectomy for an ectopic pregnancy followed by a subsequent IVF-ET cycle. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS A total of 144 patients with sonographically confirmed ectopic pregnancies were identified during the study period. Of these, 107 (74.3%) patients were treated with MTX and 37 (25.7%) were treated with laparoscopic salpingectomy. Eighty-eight patients (82.2%) in the MTX group and 22 patients (59.4%) patients in the salpingectomy group underwent a subsequent IVF-ET cycle. There were no significant differences in demographic data or baseline cycle characteristics between the 2 groups. No difference was observed in basal follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) level before and after MTX or salpingectomy treatment. Indicators of ovarian responsiveness, including total days of stimulation, total dosage of gonadotropins, and number of mature oocytes before and after either treatment, were comparable in the 2 groups. The number of doses of MTX (1 vs > 1) did not correlate with changes in ovarian response. The pregnancy outcomes, specifically live birth, were equivalent in the 2 groups. Comparing post-MTX cycles and post-salpingectomy cycles, patients in the latter group required higher doses of gonadotropins (+705 IU vs +221.5 IU; p < .01), although the number of mature oocytes remained similar in the 2 groups. CONCLUSION Treatment of ectopic pregnancies with MTX or salpingectomy might not adversely affect ovarian reserve, ovarian responsiveness, or subsequent IVF cycle outcomes. However, in our study cohort, patients treated with MTX, those s treated with laparoscopic salpingectomy required higher gonadotropin doses in a subsequent cycle to attain the same number of mature oocytes.