To gain a comprehensive view of the changes in host gene expression underlying Zika virus (ZIKV) pathogenesis, we performed whole-genome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) of ZIKV-infected Drosophila adult flies. RNA-seq analysis revealed that ZIKV infection alters several and diverse biological processes, including stress, locomotion, lipid metabolism, imaginal disc morphogenesis and regulation of JAK/STAT signaling. To explore the interaction between ZIKV infection and JAK/STAT signaling regulation, we generated genetic constructs overexpressing ZIKV-specific non-structural proteins NS2A, NS2B, NS4A and NS4B. We found that ectopic expression of non-structural proteins in the developing Drosophila eye significantly restricts growth of the larval and adult eye and correlates with considerable repression of the in vivo JAK/STAT reporter, 10XStat92E-GFP. At the cellular level, eye growth defects are associated with reduced rate of proliferation without affecting the overall rate of apoptosis. In addition, ZIKV NS4A genetically interacts with the JAK/STAT signaling components; co-expression of NS4A along with the dominant-negative form of domeless or StatRNAi results in aggravated reduction in eye size, while co-expression of NS4A in HopTuml (also known as hop(Tum)) mutant background partially rescues the hop-induced eye overgrowth phenotype. The function of ZIKV NS4A in regulating growth is maintained in the wing, where ZIKV NS4A overexpression in the pouch domain results in reduced growth linked with diminished expression of Notch targets, Wingless (Wg) and Cut, and the Notch reporter, NRE-GFP. Thus, our study provides evidence that ZIKV infection in Drosophila results in restricted growth of the developing eye and wing, wherein eye phenotype is induced through regulation of JAK/STAT signaling, whereas restricted wing growth is induced through regulation of Notch signaling. The interaction of ZIKV non-structural proteins with the conserved host signaling pathways further advance our understanding of ZIKV-induced pathogenesis. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.