BACKGROUND Retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) is indicated after chemotherapy in case of radiologic incomplete remission or teratomatous elements in orchiectomy specimens. Open RPLND is associated with considerable morbidity, but technical difficulty of postchemotherapy laparoscopic RPLND (L-RPLND) can be significant; therefore, literature concerning pc L-RPLND is sparse. OBJECTIVE To evaluate feasibility and long-term oncologic outcome of postchemotherapy L-RPLND for clinical stage II disease at a single institution. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Records of patients with nonseminomatous germ cell tumor who underwent postchemotherapy L-RPLND between 1993 and 2010 were retrospectively reviewed. Unilateral template resection was used until a bilateral nerve-sparing approach was introduced in 2004. Follow-up investigations were performed at 3-mo intervals for the first 3 yr, every 6 mo for the next 2 yr, and annually thereafter. OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS This was a descriptive analysis. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS The study cohort comprised 100 patients with stage II retroperitoneal disease (stage IIC: n=16; IIB: n=68; IIA with persisting tumor marker: n=16). Mean diameter of retroperitoneal masses before and after chemotherapy was 3.5 cm and 1.4 cm, respectively. Unilateral and bilateral templates were resected in 71 and 29 patients, respectively. Surgery was successfully completed in all but one patient, whose procedure was converted to open surgery due to bleeding. Mean operation time for unilateral and bilateral resection was 241 and 343 min, respectively. Mean blood loss was 84 ml. Postoperative complications were a large lymphocele in one patient and chylous ascites in another. Mean postoperative hospital stay was 3.9 d. L-RPLND specimens showed teratoma in 38 patients and active tumor in 2 patients. During a mean follow-up of 74 mo, one patient recurred. No recurrence was observed inside the applied surgical field. No patient died of tumor progression. After bilateral nerve-sparing postchemotherapy L-RPLND, 95.2% of patients reported antegrade ejaculation. CONCLUSIONS Postchemotherapy L-RPLND performed by experienced hands is feasible and associated with low morbidity and high oncologic efficacy.