Background The effect of COVID-19 on the cardiac function and on the vascular system increases the morbidity and mortality of infected subjects with cardiovascular diseases. Objectives To provide preliminary results on cardiac global outcomes (such as cardiac output, ventricular pressures) obtained by means of computational models in plausible scenarios characterized by COVID-19. Methods We considered a lumped parameters computational model of the cardiovascular system, which models, from the mechanical point of view, the systemic and pulmonary circulations, the four cardiac valves and the four heart chambers, through mathematical equations of the underlying physical processes. To study the effect of COVID-19, we varied the heart rate, the contractility and the pulmonary resistances in suitable ranges. Results Our computations on individuals with both otherwise normal and impaired cardiac functions revealed that COVID-19 worsen cardiac function, as shown by a decrease of some cardiac biomarkers values such as cardiac output and ejection fraction. In the case of existing impaired cardiac function, the presence of COVID-19 lead to values outside the normal ranges. Conclusions Computational models revealed to be an effective tool to study the effect of COVID-19 on the cardiovascular system. Such effect could be significant for patients with impaired cardiac function. This is especially useful to perform a sensitivity analysis of the hemodynamics for different conditions. CONDENSED ABSTRACT Emerging studies address how COVID-19 infection might impact the cardiovascular system. This relates particularly to the development of myocardial injury, acute coronary syndrome, myocarditis, arrhythmia, and heart failure. Prospective treatment approach is advised for these patients. By the assessment of conventional important biomarkers obtained with new sources as a 0-dimentional computational model, we propose a new study protocol as an effective method to evaluate short-term prognosis. The clinical protocol proposed will help to rapidly identify which patients require intensive monitoring, diagnostic strategy and most adequate therapy.