BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE The Solitaire With the Intention for Thrombectomy (SWIFT) and thrombectomy revascularization of large vessel occlusions in acute ischemic stroke (TREVO 2) trial results demonstrated improved recanalization rates with mechanical thrombectomy; however, outcomes in the elderly population remain poorly understood. Here, we report the effect of age on clinical and angiographic outcome within the North American Solitaire-FR Stent-Retriever Acute Stroke (NASA) Registry. METHODS The NASA Registry recruited sites to submit data on consecutive patients treated with Solitaire-FR. Influence of age on clinical and angiographic outcomes was assessed by dichotomizing the cohort into ≤80 and >80 years of age. RESULTS Three hundred fifty-four patients underwent treatment in 24 centers; 276 patients were ≤80 years and 78 were >80 years of age. Mean age in the ≤80 and >80 cohorts was 62.2±13.2 and 85.2±3.8 years, respectively. Of patients >80 years, 27.3% had a 90-day modified Rankin Score ≤2 versus 45.4% ≤80 years (P=0.02). Mortality was 43.9% and 27.3% in the >80 and ≤80 years cohorts, respectively (P=0.01). There was no significant difference in time to revascularization, revascularization success, or symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage between the groups. Multivariate analysis showed age >80 years as an independent predictor of poor clinical outcome and mortality. Within the >80 cohort, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS), revascularization rate, rescue therapy use, and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage were independent predictors of mortality. CONCLUSION Greater than 80 years of age is predictive of poor clinical outcome and increased mortality compared with younger patients in the NASA registry. However, intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator use, lower NIHSS, and shorter revascularization time are associated with better outcomes. Further studies are needed to understand the endovascular therapy role in this cohort compared with medical therapy.