BACKGROUND In the Covid-19 pandemic, highly selective serological testing is essential to define exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus. Many tests have been developed, yet with variable speed to first result, and of unknown quality, particularly when considering the prediction of neutralizing capacity. OBJECTIVES/METHODS The LIAISON® SARS-CoV-2 S1/S2 IgG assay was designed to measure antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 native S1/S2 proteins in a standardized automated chemiluminescent assay. Clinical and analytical performance of the test were validated in an observational study using residual samples (>1500) with positive or negative Covid-19 diagnosis. RESULTS The LIAISON® SARS-CoV-2 S1/S2 IgG assay proved highly selective and specific, and offers semiquantitative measures of serum or plasma levels of anti-S1/S2 IgG with neutralizing activity. The diagnostic sensitivity was 91.3% and 95.7% at >5 or ≥15 days from diagnosis respectively, and 100% when assessed against a neutralizing assay. The specificity ranged between 97% and 98.5%. The average imprecision of the assay was <5 % coefficient of variation. Assay performance at 2 different cut-offs was evaluated to optimize predictive values in settings with different % disease prevalence. CONCLUSIONS. The automated LIAISON® SARS-CoV-2 S1/S2 IgG assay brings efficient, sensitive, specific, and precise serological testing to the laboratory, with the capacity to test large amounts of samples per day: first results are available within 35 minutes with a throughput of 170 tests/hour. The test also provides a semiquantitative measure to identify samples with neutralizing antibodies, useful also for a large scale screening of convalescent plasma for safe therapeutic use. IMPORTANCE With the worldwide advance of the COVID-19 pandemic, efficient, reliable and accessible diagnostic tools are needed to support public health officials and healthcare providers in their efforts to deliver optimal medical care, and articulate sound demographic policy. DiaSorin has developed an automated serology based assay for the measurement of IgG specific to SARS CoV-2 Spike protein, and tested its clinical performance in collaboration with Italian health care professionals who provided access to large numbers of samples from infected and non-infected individuals. The assay delivers excellent sensitivity and specificity, and is able to identify samples with high levels of neutralizing antibodies. This will provide guidance in assessing the true immune status of subjects, as well as meeting the pressing need to screen donors for high titer convalescent sera for subsequent therapeutic and prophylactic use.