Ribavirin, a broad‐spectrum antiviral agent active in vitro against a number of RNA and DNA viruses, has been associated with moderate toxicity in laboratory animals and humans. Clinically, ribavirin has been used effectively in persons primarily to treat life‐threatening viral diseases such as acute haemorrhagic fever or viral pneumonia of infants. In order to evaluate the feasibility of using this antiviral agent in cats, the effects of oral (p.o.), intramuscular (i.m.) and intravenous (i.v.) doses of ribavirin in 27 9‐month‐old specific‐pathogen‐free cats were evaluated by haematology, clinical chemistries, bone marrow biopsies and histopathology. Ribavirin was administered once daily for 10 consecutive days at a dose of either 11, 22, or 44 mg/kg after which all cats were euthanatized and necropsied. Most cats receiving 22 or 44 mg of ribavirin/kg became anorectic and suffered some degree of weight loss (0.2 to 0.6 kg), and about one‐third of the cats developed diarrhoea and/or mucous membrane pallor. Icterus or haemorrhage was not observed. The most profound and consistent haemato‐logic change, particularly among the moderate and high dosage groups regardless of route of administration, was a significant and severe thrombocytopenia (range, 33–78% reduction in mean platelet counts vs. baseline). Other changes, particularly reductions in total WBC and neutrophils and reductions in RBC and PCV, tended to occur at lower ribavirin dosages, but generally they were not statistically significant. Cats given 44 mg of ribavirin/kg i.v. showed significant decreases in leukocyte variables, including total WBC (P = 0.016), neutrophils (P= 0.026) and lymphocytes (P= 0.047). Mild‐to‐moderate increases in serum alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase activities occurred at doses of 22 and 44 mg/kg. Evaluation of bone marrow biopsies before and after treatment revealed that cats given 11 mg of ribavirin/kg had mild megakaryocytic (MK) hypoplasia, whereas cats receiving 22 or 44 mg/kg had progressively severe degrees of MK hypoplasia and dysplasia, asynchronous MK maturation, and increased myeloidrerythroid ratio. Pathologic changes in ribavirin‐treated cats generally were mild and included primarily enteritis (seven cats) and hepatocellular vacuolation and/or centrilobular necrosis (seven cats). Results of this study in cats indicated that daily administration of ribavirin at a dose range of 11 to 44 mg/kg induced a dose‐related toxic effect on bone marrow, primarily on megakaryocytes and erythroid precursors, and at the higher dosages it suppressed numbers of circulating leukocytes.