Background Human thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) is expressed in the human asthmatic lung and activates dendritic cells (DCs) to strongly induce proallergic T‐helper type 2 (Th2) cell responses, suggesting that TSLP plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of human asthma. Th2 cells are predominantly involved in mild asthma, whereas a mixture of Th1 and Th2 cells with neutrophilic inflammation, probably induced by Th17, affects more severe asthmatic disease. Exacerbation of asthmatic inflammation is often triggered by airway‐targeting RNA viral infection; virus‐derived double‐stranded RNA, Toll‐like receptor (TLR)3 ligand, activates bronchial epithelial cells to produce pro‐inflammatory mediators, including TSLP. Objective Because TSLPR‐expressing DCs express TLR3, we examined how the relationship between TSLP and TLR3 ligand stimulation influences DC activation. Methods CD11c(+)DCs purified from adult peripheral blood were cultured in TLR ligands containing media with or without TSLP and then co‐cultured with allogeneic naïve CD4(+)T cells. Results CD11c(+) DCs responded to a combination of TSLP and TLR3 ligand, poly(I : C), to up‐regulate expression of the functional TSLP receptor and TLR3. Although TSLP alone did not induce IL‐23 production by DCs, poly(I : C) alone primed DCs for the production of IL‐23, and a combination of TSLP and poly(I : C) primed DCs for further production of IL‐23. The addition of poly(I : C) did not inhibit TSLP‐activated DCs to prime naïve CD4(+) T cells to differentiate into inflammatory Th2 cells. Furthermore, DCs activated by a combination of TSLP and poly(I : C) primed more naïve CD4(+) T cells to differentiate into Th17‐cytokine–producing cells with a central memory T cell phenotype compared with DCs activated by poly(I : C) alone. Conclusions These results suggest that through DC activation, human TSLP and TLR3 ligands promote differentiation of Th17 cells with the central memory T cell phenotype under Th2‐polarizing conditions.