BACKGROUND Single-incision pediatric endosurgical (SIPES) appendectomy has been reported in few pediatric surgical centers. We have adopted the technique recently and have offered it to all patients in whom appendectomy was indicated. The purpose of this study was to report our experience with SIPES appendectomy for acute appendicitis, perforated appendicitis, and interval appendectomy, and to compare the results with those from patients who underwent conventional laparoscopic appendectomy 1 year previously. METHODS After IRB approval, data on all SIPES appendectomies performed in our hospital were prospectively collected, including operative time, intra- and postoperative complications, conversion rate, blood loss, and hospital length of stay. Cases were stratified into three categories: acute appendicitis, perforated appendicitis, and interval appendectomy. They were compared to patients operated on in 2007 using conventional laparoscopic (three-trocar) appendectomy. RESULTS During the study period, 75 SIPES appendectomies were undertaken. Mean age was 11 years (range = 2-19 years) and mean weight was 45 kg (range = 12-132 kg). All SIPES appendectomies were completed laparoscopically, and additional trocars were placed in 20% of cases. SIPES interval appendectomies took the longest and had the highest conversion rate (33%). Follow-up data was available in 63 patients (82%) at a median of 3 weeks. There were three wound infections in the SIPES group (4%) and one in the 151 control patients. Compared to historic controls, operative time was shorter with SIPES compared to conventional laparoscopy for acute appendicitis (37 ± 12.3 vs. 44.1 ± 20.3 min, p = 0.01, 95% CI = 32-42 min). CONCLUSION SIPES appendectomy is a very good alternative to the conventional laparoscopic approach, especially for acute appendicitis. It is technically more challenging for perforated appendicitis and interval appendectomy. Yet, with appropriate consideration and skill, scarless appendectomy is achievable.