BACKGROUND Uniportal video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) is an alternative modality for treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) with its less invasiveness and acceptable surgical outcomes. However, a few reports have been introduced for wound management to achieve better cosmetic wound healing and for placement of the chest tube in uniportal VATS. Thus, we aimed to evaluate the feasibility of our novel method for wound closure and concomitant tube placement using continuous barbed suture material in uniportal VATS for PSP. METHODS Between July 2012 and December 2015, consecutive 31 patients (22 males) underwent uniportal VATS to treat PSP. Bilateral approaches were performed in four patients, thus total 35 cases were enrolled. We divided them into two groups with one group of 17 (48.5%) cases (group A), using barbed absorbable wound closure device for knotless continuous wound closure and subsequent chest tube anchoring, and the other group of 18 (51.4%) cases (group B), using conventional suture anchoring after skin closure using absorbable suture device. Postoperative surgical outcomes were compared to assess the feasibility of this technique. RESULTS Demographic data demonstrate no significant difference in both groups. There was no significant difference in length of hospital stay (3.7±1.2 vs. 4.1±1.2 days, P=0.267) and in median chest tube indwelling time (2.4±0.9 vs. 3.1±1.2 days, P=0.066), respectively. Operation time in group A was shorter than in group B but there was no significant difference (41.7±11.8 vs. 45.6±16.0 minutes, P=0.415). There was neither conversion to two or three port VATS in all cases. In group A, all chest tubes were removed with concomitant sealing the tube removal site by pulling the thread. Residual knots do not exist that stitch out procedure is not required. There was no wound complication in both groups during the median follow-up period of 18 months. CONCLUSIONS Knotless, barbed suture material technique for continuous wound closure with concomitant chest tube placement achieved equivocal outcomes in comparison to the conventional suture anchoring method. We suggest this simple technique for wound closure and easy tube removal with cosmetic wound healing in uniportal VATS for PSP.