Abstract The novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease caused by it, COVID-19, have spread to virtually all countries worldwide within just a few months. The economic and sanitary impact has been enormous. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. How to effectively prevent and control SARS-CoV-2 transmission while providing care to surgical patients during the pandemic is a crucial topic. In order to minimize the risk of cross-infection between patients and physicians, many hospitals have taken measures to limit outpatient services, elective hospitalizations, and the number of operations. Based on the prevention and control measures stipulated by major medical institutions in China, this overview provides recommendations for surgeons from three aspects: outpatient treatment, ward management and perioperative protection. Telemedicine should be encouraged as a means of social distancing. Outpatient examination should be selected. Reasonable spatial arrangement and effective environmental disinfection are important for ward management. Patient selection for surgery and timing of operations should be carefully discussed within multi-disciplinary teams. Appropriate personal protective equipment should be worn adapted to the situational risk. On December 31, 2019, China reported to the WHO Country Office a pneumonia of unknown cause detected in Wuhan [2,4]. Subsequently, the disease later named COVID-19 affected a substantial proportion of the population in Wuhan and spread to other areas of China. Relying on a nationwide shutdown and mandatory quarantine, China has effectively curtailed the domestic outbreak. However, due to the high transmissibility of SARS-Cov-2 and the mobility of people, COVID-19 spread to the rest of the world. Many hospitals worldwide were faced with confirmed and suspected SARS-Cov-2 infections, putting a huge strain on the safety of patients and employees. Consequently, surgical patients who seek medical care during the COVID-19 pandemic present significant challenges. This paper summarizes medical care and infection prevention and control in general surgery patients during the COVID-19, pandemic in the light of the current situation in China. It provides reference for surgeons and decision makers in health care in other countries suffering from the COVID-19 pandemic.