Sodium pentobarbital, a euthanasia drug, can persist in animal carcasses following euthanasia and can cause secondary toxicosis to animals that consume the remains. This experiment was conducted to observe the effects of composting on euthanized horse carcass degradation and sodium pentobarbital residues in compost material up to 367 d. Six separate compost bins were constructed on pastureland. Three bins served as the control while 3 served as the treatment. The carbonaceous material, or bulking agent, consisted of hardwood chips mixed with yard waste wetted to approximately 50% moisture content. Bulking agent was added to each bin at a depth of 0.46 m, creating the pad. A licensed veterinarian provided 6 horse carcasses for use in the experiment. These horses had required euthanasia for health reasons. All horses were weighed and then sedated with an intravenous injection of 8 mL of xylazine. After sedation the 3 horses in the treatment group were euthanized by intravenous injection of 60 mL of sodium pentobarbital. The 3 control group horses were anesthetized by intravenous injection of 15 mL of ketamine hydrochloride and then humanely euthanized by precise gunshot to the temporal lobe. Following euthanasia, each carcass was placed on the center of the pad and surrounded with 0.6 m of additional bulking agent. Serum and liver samples were obtained immediately following death. Compost samples were obtained on d 7, 14, 28, 56, 84, 129, 233, and 367 while soil samples were obtained on d -1 and 367. Each sample was analyzed for sodium pentobarbital concentration. Compost pile and ambient temperatures were also recorded. Composting successfully degraded soft tissue with only large bones remaining. Data illustrate that sodium pentobarbital was detectable up to 367 d in compost piles with no clear trend of concentration reduction. Drug residues were detected in soil samples indicating that sodium pentobarbital leached from the carcass and through the pad. These findings confirm the persistence of sodium pentobarbital from equine mortality compost piles and emphasize the importance of proper carcass management of animals euthanized with a barbiturate to reduce environmental impact and secondary toxicosis.