OBJECTIVE This is the first clinical series using the Tissue Apposition System (TAS) device in a feasibility study of polypectomy as an alternative to laparoscopic colectomy (LC) for endoscopically unresectable polyps. TAS is a novel T-tag system for endoscopic placement of sutures, facilitating closure of larger defects from advanced endoluminal or transluminal endoscopic procedures. Such novel instrumentation may reduce risk and accelerate recovery. METHODS After institutional review board approval, patients with endoscopically unresectable polyps who would otherwise require LC were enrolled. The polyp site was visualized by colonoscopy and resected with laparoscopic assistance, using endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) or submucosal dissection. After confirming benign disease by frozen section, the polypectomy site was closed by TAS under laparoscopic observation to avoid injury to surrounding structures. Follow-up colonoscopy was performed at 3 months. RESULTS Seven patients were recruited (5 men; mean age, 66 years). Polyps were from 20 to 50 (mean, 30) mm in diameter; six were in the right colon, and three were on the mesenteric border of the bowel. All final pathology was benign. Mean EMR time was 29 min, mean time taken for TAS was 37 min, and mean total operative time was 199 min. Two TAS procedures required conversion to LC (one unresectable polyp and one device failure). Five TAS procedures were completed, with a mean hospital stay of 1.2 days, and no complications. Follow-up colonoscopy revealed healing without polyp recurrence in any case. One patient (initial 5-cm sigmoid polyp) developed a very mild clinically asymptomatic stricture in the sigmoid colon. CONCLUSIONS This initial human experience demonstrates that TAS can be used safely in the colon under laparoscopic control. TAS permits safe closure of defects after endoscopic polypectomy of selected and otherwise unresectable polyps. Such technology may potentially avoid the need for LC and permit rapid recovery with short hospital stay.