The ability to accurately measure mutations is critical for basic research and identification of potential drug and chemical carcinogens. Current methods for in vivo quantification of mutagenesis are limited because they rely on transgenic rodent systems that are low-throughput, expensive, prolonged, and don’t fully represent other species such as humans. Next generation sequencing (NGS) is a conceptually attractive alternative for mutation detection in the DNA of any organism, however, the limit of resolution for standard NGS is poor. Technical error rates (~1×10−3) of NGS obscure the true abundance of somatic mutations, which can exist at frequencies ≤1×10−7. Using Duplex Sequencing, an extremely accurate error-corrected NGS (ecNGS) technology, we were able to detect mutations induced by 3 carcinogens in 5 tissues of 2 strains of mice within 31 days following exposure. We observed a strong correlation between mutation induction measured by Duplex Sequencing and the gold-standard transgenic rodent mutation assay. We identified exposure-specific mutation spectra of each compound through trinucleotide patterns of base substitution. We observed variation in mutation susceptibility by genomic region, as well as by DNA strand. We also identified clear early signs of carcinogenesis in a cancer-predisposed strain of mice, as evidenced by apparent clonal expansions of cells carrying an activated oncogene, less than a month after carcinogen exposure. These findings demonstrate that ecNGS is a powerful method for sensitively detecting and characterizing mutagenesis and early clonal evolutionary hallmarks of carcinogenesis. Duplex Sequencing can be broadly applied to chemical safety testing, basic mutational research, and related clinical uses. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Error-corrected next generation sequencing (ecNGS) can be used to rapidly detect and quantify the in vivo mutagenic impact of environmental exposures or endogenous processes in any tissue, from any species, at any genomic location. The greater speed, higher scalability, richer data outputs, as well as cross-species and cross-locus applicability of ecNGS compared to existing methods make it a powerful new tool for mutational research, regulatory safety testing, and emerging clinical applications.