A number of important principles in effective risk communication established in the late 20th century can provide important scientific insight into patient response to the risks posed by COVID-19 [1-3]. Early risk communication scholars studied public perceptions of risk in response to environmental disasters, or infectious disease outbreaks. They found acceptability of risk, and any limitations and acceptability of response by experts was shaped by two key components: hazard and outrage. The number of people who are exposed, infected and fall ill can be considered the hazard. How the public and patients perceive the risk and respond to messages regarding risk mitigation relates to outrage. Social and cultural factors, immediacy, uncertainty, familiarity, personal control, scientific uncertainty and trust in institutions and media all shape acceptability of response. These outrage factors influence the ever-changing public understanding of COVID-19 risk, as well as the public's acceptance of personal and societal mitigation strategies. Risk perceptions and acceptability of mitigation strategies are also largely shaped in the context of culture and society. In concert, hazard and outrage along with cultural and economic context shape adherence to, and overall acceptance of, personal mitigation strategies including wearing facemasks, and social distancing among the general public. The spread of misinformation on social media in the context of crisis communication provides both challenges and opportunities for experts and officials to effectively communicate and influence these outrage factors. Social media offers an opportunity for experts to quickly convey true information about hazards, but offers others the opportunity to counter this with the spread of misinformation and exacerbate outrage. We propose strategies for infectious diseases clinicians to apply risk communication principles and frameworks to improve patient care and public message development in response to COVID-19.