The immunological function of patients with malignant tumors may be suppressed during the perioperative period. However, details on the effects of transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (TEAS) on immunological function are relatively lacking. We designed this study to examine the effects of TEAS on the immunological function of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) during the perioperative period. Participants (n = 144) were enrolled and randomly assigned into group TEAS or group sham TEAS. TEAS on bilateral Feishu (BL13), Hegu (L14), and Zusanli (ST36) was performed continuously throughout the procedure. The primary outcome was the quantities of natural killer (NK) cells at 30 minutes before induction (T0), 5 minutes after intubation (T1), at the beginning of the operation (T2), at the beginning of the lobectomy (T3), at the beginning of the lymphadenectomy (T4), and immediately after extubation (T5). The secondary outcomes were the serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) at T0 to T5, the mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR), the intraoperative consumption of propofol and remifentanil, the incidence of hypoxemia, postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), and the length of hospital stay. The quantities of NK cells were decreased in group sham TEAS after intubation compared to that in group TEAS, while the quantities of NK cells in group TEAS were similar at T0 to T5. Meanwhile, the quantities of NK cells in group sham TEAS at T1 ( P = .012), T2 ( P < .001), T3 ( P = .027), T4 ( P = .045), and T5 ( P = .021) were lower than those in group TEAS. In group TEAS, the serum levels of TNF-α were lower at T1 to T5, while the levels of IL-6 were lower at T2 to T5. Furthermore, the intraoperative MAP and HR were more stable, the total propofol and remifentanil consumptions were lower, and the length of hospital stay was shorter than those in group sham TEAS. The application of TEAS can effectively reverse the decrease in NK cells, decrease the serum levels of TNF-α and IL-6, maintain hemodynamic stability during the perioperative period, decrease the consumption of propofol and remifentanil, and shorten the length of the hospital stay.