INTRODUCTION In the era of prostate-specific antigen screening and frequent cross-sectional abdominal imaging, concurrent prostate cancer and renal masses are being identified and treated. Minimizing patient morbidity and cost by avoiding separate surgical procedures is advantageous, provided technical feasibility, and safety data. Our goal was to assess the feasibility and safety of single-setting robotic renal surgery and prostatectomy. We present our initial experience. PURPOSE To assess the feasibility and safety of single-setting concurrent robot-assisted renal surgery and radical prostatectomy utilizing the same port access scheme. PATIENTS AND METHODS From February 2009 to June 2009, we performed single-setting concurrent robot-assisted radical nephrectomy/partial nephrectomy and radical prostatectomy on two patients with synchronous kidney tumors and prostate cancer. Identical port sites were used during both aspects of the procedure with the exception of one additional port during prostatectomy. Prostate cancer clinical stage and Gleason scores were T1c and 6 and T2a and 7, respectively. Corresponding renal tumors were 5 cm, respectively. RESULTS Both operations were performed, with no conversion to open surgery. There were no intraoperative complications and the postoperative course was uneventful in both patients. Discharge was on postoperative day 2 and 3, respectively. Patient 2 had an episode of delayed bleeding on postoperative day 9, treated by selective angio-embolization. Mean operative time for nephrectomy and prostatectomy (135 and 139 minutes, respectively) and estimated blood loss (75 and 100 mL, respectively) were reasonable. We began with the renal portion utilizing a lateral decubitus position before re-positioning into the lithotomy position for the prostatic portion. Clamping time was 34 minutes during partial nephrectomy. CONCLUSION Single-setting robotic radical/partial nephrectomy and radical prostatectomy is technically feasible and safe in properly selected patients who present with synchronous primary renal and prostate malignancies.