In this paper, we investigate the molecular assembly processes of a Coronavirus Spike protein fragment, the hexapeptide YKYRYL on the ACE2 receptor and its inhibitory effect on the aggregation and activation of the CoV-2 spike receptor protein at the same receptor protein. In agreement with an experimental study, we find a high affinity of the hexapeptide to the binding interface between the spike receptor protein and ACE2, which we investigate using 20 independent equilibrium MD simulations over a total of 1 μs and a 200 ns enhanced MD simulation. We then evaluate the effect of the hexapeptide on the aggregation process of the spike receptor protein to ACE2 in long-time enhanced MD simulations. In that set of simulations, we find that the spike receptor protein does not bind to ACE2 with the binding motif shown in experiments, but it rotates due to an electrostatic repulsion and forms a hydrophobic interface with ACE2. Surprisingly, we observe that the hexapeptide binds to the spike receptor domain, which has the effect that this protein only weakly attaches to ACE2, so that the activation of the spike protein receptor might be inhibited in this case. Our results indicate that the hexapeptide might be a possible treatment option which prevents the viral activation through the inhibition of the interaction between ACE2 and the spike receptor protein. SIGNIFICANCE A novel coronavirus, CoV-19 and a later phenotype CoV-2 were identified as primary cause for a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS CoV-2). The spike (S) protein of CoV-2 is one target for the development of a vaccine to prevent the viral entry into human cells. The inhibition of the direct interaction between ACE2 and the S-protein could provides a suitable strategy to prevent the membrane fusion of CoV-2 and the viral entry into human cells. Using MD simulations, we investigate the assembly process of a Coronavirus Spike protein fragment, the hexapeptide YKYRYL on the ACE2 receptor and its inhibitzory effect on the aggregation and activation of the CoV-2 spike receptor protein at the same receptor protein.