Chytridiomycosis is an infectious disease of amphibians caused by the fungal species Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis and B. salamandrivorans and has been implicated in the population decline of amphibian species worldwide. This case report describes a successful treatment protocol for chytridiomycosis in laboratory-maintained colonies of axolotls (Ambystoma mexicanum) and rough-skinned newts (Taricha granulosa). Over 12 mo, axolotls (n = 12) in a laboratory-reared colony developed multifocal erythematous dermatitis, mainly on the distal limbs and tails. Wild-caught newts handled by the same lab personnel were housed in an adjacent room and occasionally presented with abdominal distension and lethargy. Differentials included poor water quality, pathogen infection, parasitic infestation, and trauma. Antibiotic treatment of animals according to results of bacterial culture and sensitivity, combined with bleach disinfection of aquaria, did not resolve clinical signs. Skin swabs from clinically affected axolotls submitted for a newly available commercial screen were positive for B. dendrobatidis. Additional PCR and sequencing analysis revealed chytrid-positive animals among group-housed newts in 2 clinically unaffected aquaria and suspected PCR-positives for 2 affected newt aquaria and an additional axolotl. Axolotls with skin lesions (n = 2) and newts with abdominal distension and lethargy (n = 2) underwent experimental treatment with itraconazole submersion (0.002% to 0.0025%; 5 min daily for 10 d). This pilot treatment was well tolerated and led to clinical resolution. Subsequent itraconazole treatment of the entire colony led to regrowth of extremities and restoration of normal coloration among axolotls. During treatment, the facility was decontaminated, and additional biosecurity measures were developed. PCR results after the pilot treatment and subsequent full-colony treatments (at 1 wk, 1 mo, and 6 mo after treatment) were negative for the presence of B. dendrobatidis. Because chytridiomycosis is a reportable animal disease in our state, colonies officially remained quarantined until negative PCR results were obtained at least 6 mo after treatment.