Microsomal-type cytochrome P450s are integral membrane proteins bound to the membrane through their N-terminal transmembrane hydrophobic segment, the signal anchor sequence. To elucidate the determinants that enable the P450s to be located in the ER, we constructed cDNAs encoding chimeric proteins in which a secretory form of carboxyesterase, carboxyesterase Sec, was connected to the N-terminus of the full-length or truncated forms of a microsomal-type P450, P45O(M1), and the constructed plasmids were expressed in COS cells. Since carboxyesterase Sec is an iV-glycosylated secretory protein, endo H treatment could be used to determine whether these chimeric proteins were located in the ER or not. Carboxyesterase Sec with the N-terminal 20 amino acids, containing the transmembrane region, of P46O(M1), was located in the ER, as determined from the endo H sensitivity of the expressed protein and immunofluorescence staining of the cells. As the expressed protein exhibited carboxyesterase activity, it was not retained in the ER through the BiP-dependent quality control system recognizing unfolded proteins. Another chimeric protein construct in which carboxyesterase Sec was connected to the C-terminal region of rat UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UDP-GT), that contained a double-lysin ER retention motif, was also located in the ER, as determined from the endo H sensitivity and immunofluorescence staining. On the other hand, the sugar moiety of the carboxyesterase Sec connected to the transmembrane segment of UDP-GT, Sec/GTd, was partially resistant to the endo H treatment. From the results of immunofluorescent staining and cell fractiona-tion, it was concluded that the Sec/GTd product was located in the Golgi apparatus. These observations indicated that the N-terminal hydrophobic segment of P45O(M1) is sufficient for the ER membrane retention, whereas the transmembrane segment of UDP-GT is not. To determine whether microsomal P450s are recycled between the ER and Golgi compartments or not, a DNA construct encoding cathepsin D connected to the N-terminus of P45O(M1) was prepared and expressed in COS cells. The fusion protein was phosphorylated, but the phosphorylation was sensitive to alkaline phosphatase. As a control, authentic cathepsin D was subjected to phosphorylation of its oligosaccharide chain that was resistant to the alkaline phosphatase treatment. Since GlcNAc-P-transferase, which forms the alkaline phosphatase-resistant phosphodiester in the sugar chains of lysosome-targeting proteins, is located in the Golgi apparatus, it was concluded that the oligosaccharide chain of the cathepsin D portion of the fusion protein was not phosphorylated, and that the chimeric protein did not go to the Golgi apparatus. These results indicate that P45O(M1) is not recycled from the Golgi compartments to the ER in cells.