AIM To identify the metabolic determinants of type 2 diabetes non-remission status after bariatric surgery at 12 and 24 months. METHODS A total of 40 adults [mean ± sd body mass index 36 ± 3 kg/m(2) , age 48 ± 9 years, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 9.7 ± 2%) undergoing bariatric surgery [Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) or sleeve gastrectomy (SG)] were enrolled in the present study, the Surgical Treatment and Medication Potentially Eradicate Diabetes Efficiently (STAMPEDE) trial. Type 2 diabetes remission was defined as HbA1c <6.5% and fasting glucose <126 mg/dl (i.e. <7 mmol/l) without antidiabetic medication. Indices of insulin secretion and sensitivity were calculated from plasma glucose, insulin and C-peptide values during a 120-min mixed-meal tolerance test. Body fat, incretins (glucagon-like polypeptide-1, gastric inhibitory peptide, ghrelin) and adipokines [adiponectin, leptin, tumour necrosis factor-α, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP)] were also assessed. RESULTS At 24 months, 37 patients had available follow-up data (RYGB, n = 18; SG, n = 19). Bariatric surgery induced type 2 diabetes remission rates of 40 and 27% at 12 and 24 months, respectively. Total fat/abdominal fat loss, insulin secretion, insulin sensitivity and β-cell function (C-peptide0-120 /glucose0-120 × Matsuda index) improved more in those with remission at 12 and 24 months than in those without remission. Incretin levels were unrelated to type 2 diabetes remission, but, compared with those without remission, hs-CRP decreased and adiponectin increased more in those with remission. Only baseline adiponectin level predicted lower HbA1c levels at 12 and 24 months, and elevated adiponectin correlated with enhanced β-cell function, lower triglyceride levels and fat loss. CONCLUSIONS Smaller rises in adiponectin level, a mediator of insulin action and adipose mass, characterize type 2 diabetes non-remission up to 2 years after bariatric surgery. Adjunctive strategies promoting greater fat loss and/or raising adiponectin may be key to achieving higher type 2 diabetes remission rates after bariatric surgery.