OBJECTIVES: Experiences with utilizing a visiting clinical professor program to mentor institutions and collaborate on best practices in critical care pharmacy are described to provide a framework for these services and a synopsis of key outcomes. DESIGN: The Society of Critical Care Medicine Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology Section implemented a visiting clinical professor program to address the need for collaboration, idea-sharing, mentorship, and diffusion of innovation to clinicians in critical care practice. SETTING: Critical care pharmacy departments at 12 medical centers. SUBJECTS: Twelve visiting clinical professors and host institutions from 2007-2018. INTERVENTION: After an application is submitted to the section steering committee, an experienced clinician is paired with an institution, and a site visit is planned in collaboration with the visiting clinical professor program coordinators. The expert clinician visits the institution to share their insights and best practices based on visit goals and objectives. Reflective debriefing with both the host institution and the visiting clinical professor occurs after the visit. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The program has demonstrated numerous benefits including shared best practices related to critical care clinical services, expansion and refinement of care delivery models, development and optimization of research programs, and advancement of new training programs including specialty pharmacy residencies. Both the site and visiting professor find these partnerships beneficial, which has resulted in sustained success of the program over an 11-year period. Key resultant deliverables after visits have included new pharmacist positions, advancement of pharmacy services, and expanded access to academic opportunities. CONCLUSIONS: A professional organization led visiting clinical professor program is viable, sustainable, and yields clear benefit for critical care pharmacy programs across the country. Application of this framework to other areas of pharmacy practice may be an avenue to share best practices and advance pharmacy services.