The most frequent microbial causative agents of massive diarrheas in new-born calves kept on large cattle farms in the CSSR are rotaviruses, coronaviruses and enterotoxigenic strains of E. coli, manifesting themselves as complicated virus-bacterial infections. An inactivated polyvalent adjuvant vaccine has been developed for the prevention and specific prophylaxis of these enteral infections; the vaccine contains bovine rotavirus, bovine coronavirus and three enterotoxigenic serotypes of E. coli with protective antigen K 99. The rotavirus and coronavirus are propagated on the stable cellular line MDBK and inactivated with 0.2% formalin, the Escherichia strains are submersed in the MINCA culture medium during their cultivation and inactivated with 0.5% formalin. The vaccine was prepared as a blend of the same amounts of rotavirus and coronavirus and of such an amount of bacterin so that 1 ml of the vaccine will contain 10(9) bacteria. One part of oil adjuvant was added to five parts of the virus-bacterial blend and the blend was homogenized in the Ultraturax apparatus. The vaccine is to be used for immunization of pregnant cows and heifers; in these animals it induces the production of specific antibodies to all antigens contained in the vaccine. Its immunogenic effects were checked in 32 calves and 38 cows in the herds with the occurrence of diarrheas caused by both enteropathogenic viruses and enterotoxigenic escherichia. It was demonstrated that the inactivation did not influence in either of the viruses the process of inducing the production of specific antibodies, and the antibody response of the calves and heifers after application of 2 ml of complete inactivated vaccine was equally strong as after application of live vaccine containing only rotavirus and coronavirus. The level of the rotavirus antibodies increased on the average 30 times and 200 times, coronavirus antibodies twice and four times. The antibody response to coronavirus was negatively influenced by the relatively high levels of antibodies before vaccination. The antibody response to antigen K 99 was expressive in all cases.