BACKGROUND Although there are reports of robot-assisted ureteral reconstructions (RURs) with excellent safety and efficacy, the procedures remain technically challenging. In the robotic setting the surgeon must rely on visual cues in the absence of tactile feedback. Indocyanine green (ICG) is a dye that can be visualized under near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF). OBJECTIVE To describe our novel technique, which utilizes intraureteral injection of ICG and subsequent visualization under NIRF to facilitate RUR, and report our outcomes after these procedures. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS This is a retrospective review of 25 patients who underwent 26 RURs for various ureteral pathologies between June 2012 and October 2013. SURGICAL PROCEDURE After full disclosure, all patients consented to off-label use of ICG. A ureteral catheter and/or percutaneous nephrostomy tube were used to inject 10ml of ICG into the diseased ureter, above and below the stricture. Intraoperatively, NIRF was activated to assist in identification of the ureter and to localize the margins of ureteral strictures. MEASUREMENTS Postoperatively, RURs were assessed for clinical success (absence of symptoms attributable to ureteral pathology) and radiological success (absence of a ureteral stricture on imaging). RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS Our technique provided visual cues and aided in successful performance of 26 RURs in 25 patients. The procedures included ureterolysis (n=4), pyeloplasty (n=8), ureteroureterostomy (n=9), and ureteroneocystostomy (n=5). There were no perioperative complications attributable to ICG use. At a mean overall follow-up of 12 mo, all procedures were clinically and radiologically successful. This study is limited by the small sample size and short-term follow-up. CONCLUSIONS Intraureteral injection of ICG and subsequent visualization under NIRF facilitates RUR by aiding in rapid and accurate identification of the ureter, and precise localization of the proximal and distal ureteral stricture margins. In our experience, our technique is safe, easy to perform, and reproducible. PATIENT SUMMARY In this report, we describe a new technique to facilitate robot-assisted ureteral reconstructions using intraureteral injection of ICG and subsequent visualization under near-infrared fluorescence. More specifically, our technique allows for rapid and accurate identification of the ureter, and precise localization of ureteral strictures.