BACKGROUND Almost every pulmonary lobe resection requires cutting the lung parenchyma in the area of a lung fissure. A monopolar cutter or stapler is often used for this purpose. The seal should be absolutely airtight to prevent post-operative pulmonary fistulas. In the present study, the bipolar sealing technique was evaluated regarding air tightness of the seals during normal ventilation and its burst pressure in an ex vivo animal model. MATERIALS AND METHODS The investigations were carried out on paracardial lung lobes obtained from heart-lung preparations taken from freshly killed pigs at a slaughter house. In the laboratory, each individual lobe was perfused with Ringer's solution at body temperature and protectively ventilated through a tube (frequency: 20 1/min, p insp = 20 mbar, PEEP +5 mbar). Non-anatomic resection was carried out in the periphery of the lung lobe. The two control groups (12 lobes per group; Group 1-stapler, Group 2-parenchyma suture) were compared to three groups in which different bipolar sealing instruments were used. They were Group 3-MARSEAL(®) 10 mm (KLS Martin, Tuttlingen); Group 4-MARSEAL(®) 5 mm; and Group 5-MARCLAMP(®) (KLS Martin, Tuttlingen). The SealSafe(®) G3 electric current was used in all cases. Ventilation was continued for 20 min following parenchymal resection. Parenchymal sealing was then judged visually in a water bath and given a score (0-3). Burst pressure (mbar) was measured by increasing the inspiration pressure stepwise. Group mean values were compared (nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test, p < 0.005). RESULTS Parenchymal seals were airtight under ventilation throughout the observation period in all groups. Mean burst pressures were as follows: Group 1: 47.1 ± 6.2 mbar; Group 2: 32.9 ± 3.9 mbar; Group 3: 38.8 ± 2.2 mbar; Group 4: 25.0 ± 6.4 mbar; and Group 5: 32.9 ± 5.8 mbar. Group 1, the stapler group, thus exhibited the highest burst pressures. Burst pressures for Group 3 were significantly greater than those for Group 2 (p < 0.006). Burst pressures for groups 2 and 5 were similar (p = 0.97). However, the burst pressures for Group 4 were significantly lower than those for Group 2 (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION MARSEAL(®) 10 mm and MARCLAMP(®) achieved adequate burst pressures compared to the two control groups and thus might be suitable for clinical use.