BACKGROUND In the absence of vaccines and established treatments, nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) are fundamental tools to control coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) transmission. NPIs require public interest in order to be successful. In the United States, there is a lack of published research on the factors that influenced public interest in COVID-19. Using Google Trends, we examined the US level of public interest in COVID-19 and how it correlated to testing and other countries. OBJECTIVE To determine how public interest in COVID-19 in the US changed over time and the key factors driving this change, such as testing. US COVID-19 public interest was compared to countries that have been more successful in their containment and mitigation strategies. METHODS In this retrospective study, Google Trends was used to analyze the volume of internet searches within the US relating to COVID-19, focusing on dates between December 31, 2019 to March 24, 2020. Volume of internet searches related to COVID-19 was compared to other countries. RESULTS Within the US throughout January and February 2020, there was limited search interest in COVID-19. Interest declined for the first 21 days of February. A similar decline was seen in geographical regions that were later found to be experiencing undetected community transmission in February. Between March 9 and March 12, there was a rapid rise in search interest. This rise in search interest was positively correlated with the rise of positive tests for SARS-CoV-2 (6.3, 95% CI -2.9 to 9.7; P <.001). Within the US, it took 52 days for search interest to rise substantially from first positive case; in countries with more successful outbreak control it took less than 15 days. CONCLUSIONS Containment and mitigation strategies require public interest in order for them to be successful. The initial US level of COVID-19 public interest was limited, and even fell during a time when containment and mitigation strategies were being put in place. A lack of US public interest in COVID-19 existed when containment and mitigation policies were in place. Based on our analysis, it is clear policy makers need to develop novel methods of communicating COVID-19 public health initiatives. CLINICALTRIAL