Dengue is one of the most important mosquito-borne viral infections caused by single-stranded RNA virus that are transmitted by the Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquito species. Dengue is endemic in over 140 countries in Asia, the USA, the Eastern Mediterranean, and Africa. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that there are more than 2.5 billion people—mainly occurs in children living in tropical and subtropical countries—at risk of dengue infection with one or more dengue viruses. There are estimated nearly 100 million symptomatic dengue infections occurring worldwide annually, nearly 75% in Asia and the Western Pacific region [1]. During the past decades, the outbreaks of dengue infection have been reported throughout the world with increased severity. Ecologic and demographic changes are considered to be the contributing factors to the emergence of dengue infection in the past decades. Dengue has expanded into new countries and into urban settings associated with increased distribution of A. aegypti, population growth, urbanization, development of slums, migration of population, movement of dengue virus by infected travelers, trade development, and improved diagnostic capabilities in medical practice [2, 3]. Increased transmission of dengue virus in tropical urban areas has been created by substandard housing and crowding as well as deterioration in water, sewer, and waste management systems, all of which are intimately associated with unplanned urbanization [4–7]. So it is likely that dengue will expand its geographic reach and become an increasing burden on health resources in affected areas during the next decade. An effective vector-control management is the only means to reduce dengue infection in endemic areas. Because vector control has achieved only limited success so far in reducing the transmission of dengue, the usage of effective dengue vaccine in target population along with the preventive measures already used such as raising public awareness may be the means to effectively control of this disease in endemic area [8].