PURPOSE Rectus sheath haematoma (RSH) is an uncommon condition caused by lesion of the superior or inferior epigastric arteries or their branches or by rupture of the rectus muscle. Treatment is usually supportive; however, if haemodynamic compromise develops, intravascular embolisation or surgery may be required. Furthermore, in some cases, bleeding may be so conspicuous that it can determine the patient's death before an adequate treatment is performed. We performed a retrospective study on 78 consecutive patients with the diagnosis of RSH admitted to the General Surgery Unit of our hospital between January 2000 and December 2010 in order to identify possible prognostic risk factors that could affect the operational approach before the onset of haemodynamic instability. METHODS Demographic characteristics, patient history, laboratory and diagnostic imaging examinations were investigated. The variables considered were: gender, age, anti-coagulation or anti-platelet therapy, trauma, international normalised ratio (INR) and bleeding time in the first 72 h of observation and concomitant diseases. The data were used for statistical analysis. RESULTS Sixty patients received a conservative treatment, while 18 underwent operative treatment for haemodynamic instability (embolisation in 2 patients and surgery in 16 patients). Three of these 18 patients (17 %) died for consumption coagulopathy after surgery. None of the variables included in the univariate statistical analysis was significant (p = ns). CONCLUSION Ultrasonography or computed tomography are the most common methods used to establish the diagnosis of RSH, so it is no longer a diagnostic dilemma. Most patients can be treated conservatively and an operative treatment is justified only in case of haemodynamic instability. Our retrospective study could not identify any prognostic risk factor of haemodynamic instability in RSH. We believe that only a close observation of the patients with RSH and "common sense" can prevent a possible fatal outcome.