Tessellated calcified cartilage (TCC) is a distinctive kind of biomineralized perichondral tissue found in many modern and extinct chondrichthyans (sharks, rays, chimaeroids and their extinct allies). Customarily, this feature has been treated somewhat superficially in phylogenetic analyses, often as a single 'defining' character of a chondrichthyan clade. TCC is actually a complex hard tissue with numerous distinctive attributes, but its utility as a character complex for phylogenetic analysis has not yet been optimized. In this paper, we attempt to improve this situation by presenting new terminology for certain aspects of tesseral architecture, including single-monolayered, multiple-monolayered, polylayered and voussoir tesserae; new histological data, including thin sections of TCC in several Paleozoic taxa; and new proposals for ways in which various characters and states (many of which are defined here for the first time) could be applied in future phylogenetic analyses of chondrichthyan fishes. We conclude that many, but not all of the unique attributes of modern TCC were evolved by the Early Devonian (ca 400 MY). The globular calcified cartilage reported in Silurian sinacanthids, and the so-called 'sub-tessellated' perichondral biomineralization (with irregular and ill-defined geometries of a layer or layers of calcified cartilage blocks) of certain extinct 'acanthodians' (e.g., Climatius, Ischnacanthus, Cheiracanthus) could represent evolutionary precursors of TCC, which seems to characterize only part of the chondrichthyan total group. We hypothesize that heavily biomineralized 'layer-cake' TCC in certain Paleozoic chondrichthyans perhaps served a dual physiological role, as a phosphate sink and in providing increased skeletal density in very large (7+ m) Devonian-Permian marine sharks such as ctenacanths, and as an adaptation to calcium-deficient environments among Permo-Carboniferous non-marine sharks such as xenacanths. By contrast, the equivalent tissue in modern elasmobranchs probably serves only to reinforce regions of cartilage (mostly in the jaws) subjected to high loading. We also note that much of the variation observed in tesseral architecture (including localized remodeling), ultrastructure and histology in modern and extinct chondrichthyans is confined to the perichondrally-facing cap zone (where Type-1 collagen matrix predominates in modern TCC), whereas the main body of the tessera (where Type-2 collagen matrix predominates) exhibits comparatively little evidence of remodeling and histological or structural variation. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.