BACKGROUND Since December 2019, many cases of pneumonia caused by novel coronavirus have been discovered in Wuhan, China, and such cases have spread nationwide quickly. At present, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a worldwide pandemic. What are the clinical features of this disease? What is the clinical diagnosis and how should such patients be treated? As a clinician, mastery of the clinical characteristics, basic diagnosis, and treatment methods of COVID-19 are required to provide help to patients. CASE SUMMARY A 42-year-old male patient with a cough lasting 6 d without obvious cause, as well as fever and fatigue for 1 d, was admitted to Hankou Hospital on January 22, 2020 and transferred to Huoshenshan Hospital on February 4. The main clinical symptoms were dry cough, fatigue, and fever. He was diagnosed with COVID-19. From the 4th d of admission, the patient's condition gradually worsened, with increased respiratory rate and body temperature. Peripheral blood lymphocytes decreased progressively. On the 8th d of admission, the patient's highest temperature was 40.7 °C, and oxygen saturation was 83% despite high-flow oxygen inhalation. Chest computed tomography results showed that the virus progressed rapidly. The number of lesions significantly increased with expanded scope and increased density. The distribution of lesions advanced from peripheral to central. In addition to nasal catheter oxygen inhalation and symptomatic support, antiviral drugs were used throughout the treatment. On January 22, oseltamivir phosphate capsules were given orally (75 mg, twice daily) for 6 d. On January 24, three tablets of lopinavir and ritonavir were added orally (twice daily). After 6 d, this was changed to 0.2 g (two tablets) arbidol, taken orally (three times daily) for 5 d. During the severe stage, methylprednisolone was given (40 mg) once every 12 h, immunoglobulin (20 g) was administered by intravenous drip infusion once daily, and thymosin (1.6 mg) was injected subcutaneously once daily combined with immunotherapy. On February 2, symptoms decreased, various indicators improved, and pulmonary inflammation was obviously reduced. Throat swabs on February 4 and 9 were negative for novel coronavirus nucleic acid. After 19 d in the hospital, the patient was successfully treated and discharged. CONCLUSION COVID-19 in young adults can be successfully treated with active treatment. We report a typical case of COVID-19, analyze its clinical characteristics, summarize its clinical diagnosis and treatment experience, and provide a reference for clinical colleagues.