OBJECT The authors evaluated whether a polyethylene glycol-based hydrogel sealant system improved dural closures with collagen-based duraplasty onlay grafts. METHODS Dural defects 1.5 cm in diameter were created in 12 canines and repaired with one of two commercially available duraplasty onlay products. In six animals, hydrogel was applied onto the dural onlays, and the other six animals underwent duraplasty only. Before bone flap replacement, watertight closure was assessed. Before the animals were killed, the craniotomy was reopened, adhesions were rated by a neurosurgeon blinded to the treatment groups, and dural integrity was assessed using pressure testing. RESULTS The animals that received the hydrogel sealant in addition to the duraplasty withstood intraoperative Valsalva maneuvers up to 20 cm H2O without cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage. The duraplasty-only animals leaked CSF at spontaneous pressures (p = 0.0022). Postoperatively, all six duraplasty-only dogs developed CSF subcutaneous accumulations, compared with only one (16.7%) dog who underwent hydrogel application (p = 0.0152). At the time of harvesting (8 weeks after implantation), duraplasty-only dogs had extensive scarring between the bone flap and the dura mater (median adhesion score 4, range 3-4). The animals receiving hydrogel showed minimal scarring (median adhesion score 0.5, range 0-2). In hydrogel-treated dogs, the mean adhesion score was 82.6% lower than the scores in duraplasty-only animals (p = 0.0043). In animals receiving hydrogel, the mean dural leak pressure was 56.8 +/- 2.5 cm H2O compared with 9.8 +/- 3.8 cm H2O in duraplasty-only dogs (p = 0.0392). Application of the hydrogel was not associated with neurotoxicity, delayed healing, degenerative changes, or increased dura-cortex adhesions. CONCLUSIONS The hydrogel sealant applied to collagen-based dural grafts significantly reduced CSF leakage and functioned as an adhesion barrier. Such technology could be an important tool for cranial surgery.