The transplantation of hematopoietic and lymphopoetic stem and progenitor cells has become a standard procedure for the treatment of many malignant diseases. Autologous stem cells are derived from the patient himself, allogeneic cells from an HLA-identical or HLA-compatible family or unrelated donor. Hematopoetic stem cells can be obtained from bone marrow, blood and fetal cord blood. After 3 to 5 days treatment, the granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilizes stem- and progenitor cells from the marrow into the blood. This method is now standard in autologous transplantation and is increasingly preferred in allogeneic transplantation. The time to hematopoietic recovery is shorter with blood stem cells than with bone marrow cells. With myeloablative high dose therapy followed by stem cell transplantation, long term disease free survival is possible in many cases and great proportions of patients can be cured (see part II). Improvements of supportive care have reduced toxicity of treatment substantially, however severe complications still occur at oropharynx, gastrointestinal tract, liver, lung, skin, kidney, urinary tract and nervous system. After allogeneic transplantation immunocompetent donor cells can react with the recipients tissue. In HLA-identical donor and recipients differences in the minor histocompatibility antigens account for this graft-versus-host-reaction (GvH), which is mainly mediated by transplanted T-cells. The GvH-reaction can affect skin, liver, gut and other organs and cause clinically relevant GvH-disease (GvHD). The GvHD is more severe in HLA-mis-matched or unrelated transplantations. Immunodeficiency and organ dysfunction due to GvHD may predispose to life threatening infections and impair the outcome of transplantion. Unrelated cord blood stem cells may have a minor risk of inducing acute GvHD, as stem and T-cells are immature. After allogeneic stem cell transplantation, the relapse rate of leukemia or lymphoma is significantly reduced by immunoreactive cells: graft-versus-tumor (GvT) or graftversus-leukemia effect (GvL).