Robotic-assisted surgery has seen a rapid development and integration in the field of gynecology. Since the approval of the use of robot for gynecological surgery and considering its several advantages over conventional laparoscopy, it has been widely incorporated especially in the field of reproductive surgery. Uterine fibroids are the most common benign tumors of the female reproductive tract. Many reproductive-aged women with this condition demand uterine-sparing surgery to preserve their fertility. Myomectomy, the surgical excision of uterine fibroids, remains the only surgical management option for fibroids that entails preservation of fertility. In this review, we focus on the role of robotic-assisted laparoscopic myomectomy and its current status, in comparison with other alternative approaches for myomectomy, including open, hysteroscopic, and traditional laparoscopic techniques. Several different surgical techniques have been demonstrated for robotic myomectomy. This review endeavors to share and describe our surgical experience of using the standard laparoscopic equipment for robotic-assisted myomectomy, together with the da Vinci Robot system. For the ideal surgical candidate, robotic-assisted myomectomy is a safe minimally invasive surgical procedure that can be offered as an alternative to open surgery. The advantages of using the robot system compared to open myomectomy include a shorter length of hospital stay, less postoperative pain and analgesic use, faster return to normal activities, more rapid return of the bowel function, and enhanced cosmetic results due to smaller skin incision sizes. Some of the disadvantages of this technique include high costs of the robotic surgical system and equipment, the steep learning curve of this novel system, and prolonged operative and anesthesia times. Robotic technology is a novel and innovative minimally invasive approach with demonstrated feasibility in gynecological and reproductive surgery. This technology is expected to take the lead in gynecological surgery in the upcoming decade.