002hv1oz OBJECTIVE Celecoxib (CEL) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) showing selective cycloxygenase-2 inhibition. While effective as a pain reducer, CEL exerts some negative influence on renal and gastrointestinal parameters. This study examined CEL pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics following drug reformulation as a poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid nanoparticle (NP). MATERIALS AND METHODS Rats were administered either vehicle (VEH) (methylcellulose solution), blank NP, 40 mg/kg CEL in methylcellulose, or an equivalent NP dose (CEL-NP). Plasma and urine (over 12 hrs) samples were collected prior to and post-treatment. The mean percent change from baseline of urine flow rate along with electrolyte concentrations in plasma and urine were assessed based on 100 g body weight. Using tissues collected 24 hrs post-treatment, gastrointestinal inflammation was estimated through duodenal and gastric prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and duodenal myeloperoxidase (MPO) levels; while kidney tissue was examined for dilatation and necrosis. CEL concentration was assayed in renal tissue and plasma utilizing high-performance liquid chromatography. RESULTS Although there were significant changes when comparing CEL and CEL-NP to VEH in plasma sodium concentration and potassium excretion rate, there was no significant variation between CEL and CEL-NP. There was a significant reduction of protective duodenal PGE2 in CEL compared to VEH (p = 0.0088) and CEL-NP (p = 0.02). In the CEL-NP formulation, t1/2, Cmax, AUC0-∞, and Vd/F increased significantly when compared to CEL. CONCLUSIONS At the observed dosage and duration, CEL-NP may not affect CEL-associated electrolyte parameters in either plasma or urine; however, it does provide increased systemic exposure while potentially alleviating some gastrointestinal outcomes related to inflammation.
00szrrjo The circumstances of coronavirus disease (COVID-19)-related deaths embed multiple traumatic characteristics, alongside several external factors that can disenfranchise individual grief. In this context, severe forms of traumatic distress, guilt, somatization, regret, anger, and unspecific symptoms not yet included in prolonged grief disorder (PGD) criteria could emerge. This article (a) analyzes factors related to bereavement in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic; (b) proposes avenues for meaning-making practices to facilitate individual and collective mourning process; and (c) invites clinicians to pay attention to the traumatic characteristics of COVID-19-related deaths adopting a holistic approach of PGD clinical manifestations, as well as in evaluation and treatment of cases. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).
00v8k37q OBJECTIVE To validate the ability of a specifically developed cognitive risk score to identify patients at risk of poststroke neurocognitive disorders (NCDs) who are eligible for a comprehensive cognitive assessment. METHODS After assessing 404 patients (infarct 91.3%) in the Groupe de Réflexion pour l'Evaluation Cognitive VASCulaire (GRECogVASC) cross-sectional study with the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke-Canadian Stroke Network battery 6 months after stroke, we used multivariable logistic regression and bootstrap analyses to determine factors associated with NCDs. Independent, internally validated factors were included in a cognitive risk score. RESULTS Cognitive impairment was present in 170 of the 320 patients with a Rankin Scale score ≥1. The backward logistic regression selected 4 factors (≥73% of the permutations): NIH Stroke Scale score on admission ≥7 (odds ratio [OR] 2.73, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.29-4.3, p = 0.005), multiple strokes (OR 3.78, 95% CI 1.6-8, p = 0.002), adjusted Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSEadj) score ≤27 (OR 6.69, 95% CI 3.9-11.6, p = 0.0001), and Fazekas score ≥2 (OR 2.34, 95% CI 1.3-4.2, p = 0.004). The cognitive risk score computed with these 4 factors provided good calibration, discrimination (overoptimism-corrected C = 0.793), and goodness of fit (Hosmer-Lemeshow test p = 0.99). A combination of Rankin Scale score ≥1, cognitive risk score ≥1, and MMSEadj score ≥21 selected 230 (56.9%) of the 404 patients for a comprehensive assessment. This procedure yielded good sensitivity (96.5%) and moderate specificity (43%; positive predictive value 0.66, negative predictive value 0.91) and was more accurate (p ≤ 0.03 for all) than the sole use of screening tests (MMSE or Montréal Cognitive Assessment). CONCLUSION The GRECogVASC cognitive risk score comprises 4 easily documented factors; this procedure helps to identify patients at risk of poststroke NCDs who must therefore undergo a comprehensive assessment. CLINICALTRIALSGOV IDENTIFIER NCT01339195.
013slpn2 INTRODUCTION: Currently there are known contributing factors but no comprehensive methods for predicting the risk of mortality or ICU admission in patients with Novel Corona Virus infection (COVID-19). OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study is to explore risk factors of mortality and ICU admission in COVID-19 patients using combined CT and clinicolaboratory data. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) confirmed COVID-19 (N= 63) from University Hospitals in Tehran, Iran were studied. All patients underwent CT examination and a total CT score and the number of involved lung lobes were calculated and compared against collected laboratory and clinical information. Univariable and multivariate proportional hazards analysis were used to determine the relationship between the CT, laboratory and clinical data and ICU admission and in-hospital death. RESULTS: By univariable analysis, in-hospital mortality was higher in patients with lower O2 saturation on admission (<88%), higher CT scores and higher number of lung lobes (> 4) involved with a diffuse parenchymal pattern. By multivariable analysis, in-hospital mortality was higher in patients with O2 saturation below 88% on admission and a higher number of lung lobes involved with diffuse parenchymal pattern. The risk of ICU admission was higher with comorbidities (hypertension and ischemic heart disease), SaO2 below 88% and pericardial effusion. CONCLUSIONS: We can identify factors affecting in-hospital death and ICU admission in COVID-19. This can help to determine which patients are likely to require ICU admission and to help inform strategic health care planning in critical conditions such as the COVID-19 pandemic.
019rcbpg BACKGROUND: During the COVID-19 pandemic general medical complications have received the most attention, whereas only few studies address the potential direct effect on mental health of SARS-CoV-2 and the neurotropic potential. Furthermore, the indirect effects of the pandemic on general mental health are of increasing concern, particularly since the SARS-CoV-1 epidemic (2002-2003) was associated with psychiatric complications. METHODS: We systematically searched the database Pubmed including studies measuring psychiatric symptoms or morbidities associated with COVID-19 among infected patients and among none infected groups the latter divided in psychiatric patients, health care workers and non-health care workers. RESULTS: A total of 43 studies were included. Out of these, only two studies evaluated patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection, whereas 41 evaluated the indirect effect of the pandemic (2 on patients with preexisting psychiatric disorders, 20 on medical health care workers, and 19 on the general public). 18 of the studies were case-control studies/compared to norm, while 25 of the studies had no control groups. The two studies investigating COVID-19 patients found a high level of post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) (96.2%) and significantly higher level of depressive symptoms (p=0.016). Patients with preexisting psychiatric disorders reported worsening of psychiatric symptoms. Studies investigating health care workers found increased depression/depressive symptoms, anxiety, psychological distress and poor sleep quality. Studies of the general public revealed lower psychological well-being and higher scores of anxiety and depression compared to before COVID-19, while no difference when comparing these symptoms in the initial phase of the outbreak to four weeks later. A variety of factors were associated with higher risk of psychiatric symptoms and/or low psychological well-being including female gender, poor-self-related health and relatives with COVID-19. CONCLUSION: Research evaluating the direct neuropsychiatric consequences and the indirect effects on mental health is highly needed to improve treatment, mental health care planning and for preventive measures during potential subsequent pandemics.
01s21vh0 Zika virus (ZIKV) infection in utero might lead to microcephaly and other congenital defects. Since no specific therapy is available thus far, there is an urgent need for the discovery of agents capable of inhibiting its viral replication and deleterious effects. Chloroquine is widely used as an antimalarial drug, anti-inflammatory agent, and it also shows antiviral activity against several viruses. Here we show that chloroquine exhibits antiviral activity against ZIKV in Vero cells, human brain microvascular endothelial cells, human neural stem cells, and mouse neurospheres. We demonstrate that chloroquine reduces the number of ZIKV-infected cells in vitro, and inhibits virus production and cell death promoted by ZIKV infection without cytotoxic effects. In addition, chloroquine treatment partially reveres morphological changes induced by ZIKV infection in mouse neurospheres.
01w9kap5 Researchers see self-regulated learning (SRL) as a fundamental skill for succeeding in massive open online courses (MOOCs). However, there is no sufficient evidence of adequate functioning of SRL dimensions such as environment structuring, goal setting, time management, help-seeking, task strategies, and self-evaluation in the MOOC environment. This study fills the gap in understanding the structure of SRL skills utilising the Online Self-Regulated Learning Questionnaire (OSLQ). The construct-related validity of the OSLQ is evaluated based on self-reported survey responses of 913 Russian MOOC learners with confirmatory factor analysis and criterion-related validity is checked with independent samples t-tests comparison. The results show that the original six-factor hierarchical model does not fit the data adequately. The evidence implies that the dimension ‘help-seeking’ is not effective in the MOOC environment. Therefore, a redefined five-factor hierarchical model of the OSLQ is suggested.
022skl85 Resumen La infección por el virus de Epstein-Barr es la causa más frecuente de la mononucleosis infecciosa. Describimos su diagnóstico y los distintos patrones serológicos que se pueden presentar, así como sus principales complicaciones, relación con el desarrollo de neoplasias, síndromes linfoproliferativos y enfermedades autoinmunes. No existe un tratamiento efectivo. El citomegalovirus es la segunda causa de síndrome mononucleósido, la primera de infección congénita en nuestro medio y presenta gran morbimortalidad en los pacientes inmunodeprimidos, fundamentalmente trasplantados de órganos sólidos, médula ósea e infección por el virus de la inmunodeficiencia humana. Su tratamiento se basa en los antivíricos, sobre todo ganciclovir y valganciclovir. Describimos su manejo, efectos adversos, principales alternativas, nuevos fármacos y profilaxis. Abstract Infections by Epstein-Barr virus is the most common cause of infectious mononucleosis. We describe the diagnosis and different serological patterns, as well as its major complications related to the development of malignancies, lymphoproliferative disorders and autoimmune diseases. There is no effective treatment. Cytomegalovirus is the second cause of mononucleosis syndrome and the first of congenital infection in our environment. It has an high morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients, mainly solid organ transplants, bone marrow and coinfection by human immunodeficiency virus. Its treatment is based on antivirals, mainly ganciclovir and valganciclovir. We describe its management, adverse effects, new drugs and prophylaxis.
0262bm3z Publisher Summary Lectins can also be classified according to their binding specificity or selectivity with carbohydrates. This type of classification is helpful for selection of lectins as structural probes in biomedical applications. This chapter summarizes the concept and the updated information regarding the specificity-based lectin classification. Lectins are functionally classified based on their relative binding reactivities with the structural units of carbohydrate or glyco-epitopes. They are grouped according to their monosaccharide specificities and then further sub-grouped based on their reactivities with more complex structures. Carbohydrate specificities of biomedically important lectins are classified into six groups according to their specificities to monosaccharides. The chapter introduces a practical platform of carbohydrate microarrays that is useful for lectin characterization and classification. Finally, the chapter discusses a few examples to illustrate the application of this technology in lectin-related experimental investigations.
027twgah Abstract Background Longer time from diagnosis to definitive surgery (TTDS) is associated with increased melanoma-specific mortality. Although Black patients present with later stage melanoma and have worse survival than non-Hispanic white (NHW) patients, the association between race and TTDS is unknown. Objective To investigate racial differences in time to melanoma treatment. Methods Retrospective review of the National Cancer Database (2004-2015). Multivariable logistic regression was used to evaluate the association of race with TTDS controlling for sociodemographic/disease characteristics. Results Of the 233,982 melanoma patients identified, 1,221 (0.52%) were Black. Black patients had longer TTDS for stage I-III melanoma (p<0.001) and time to immunotherapy (p=0.01), but not for TTDS for stage IV melanoma or time to chemotherapy (p>0.05 for both). Controlling for sociodemographic characteristics, Black patients had over twice the odds of having TTDS between 41-60 days, over three times the odds of having TTDS between 61-90 days, and over five times the odds of having TTDS over 90 days. Racial differences in TTDS persisted within each insurance type. Patients with Medicaid had the longest TTDS (mean 60.4 days), and those with private insurance had the shortest TTDS (mean 44.6 days; p<0.001 for both). Conclusions Targeted approaches to improve TTDS for Black patients are integral in reducing racial disparities in melanoma outcomes.
028avudf The World Health Organization and European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control suggest that individuals over the age of 70 years or with underlying cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, or diabetes are at increased risk of severe COVID-19. However, the prevalence of these prognostic factors is unknown in many countries. We aimed to describe the burden and prevalence of prognostic factors of severe COVID-19 at national and county level in Sweden. We calculated the burden and prevalence of prognostic factors for severe COVID-19 based on records from the Swedish national health care and population registers for 3 years before 1st January 2016. 9,624,428 individuals were included in the study population. 22.1% had at least one prognostic factor for severe COVID-19 (2,131,319 individuals), and 1.6% had at least three factors (154,746 individuals). The prevalence of underlying medical conditions ranged from 0.8% with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (78,516 individuals) to 7.4% with cardiovascular disease (708,090 individuals), and the county specific prevalence of at least one prognostic factor ranged from 19.2% in Stockholm (416,988 individuals) to 25.9% in Kalmar (60,005 individuals). We show that one in five individuals in Sweden is at increased risk of severe COVID-19. When compared with the critical care capacity at a local and national level, these results can aid authorities in optimally planning healthcare resources during the current pandemic. Findings can also be applied to underlying assumptions of disease burden in modelling efforts to support COVID-19 planning. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s10654-020-00646-z) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
02bik024 Abstract Advances in bioinformatics and protein modeling algorithms, in addition to the enormous increase in experimental protein structure information, have aided in the generation of databases that comprise homology models of a significant portion of known genomic protein sequences. Currently, 3D structure information can be generated for up to 56% of all known proteins. However, there is considerable controversy concerning the real value of homology models for drug design. This review provides an overview of the latest developments in this area and includes selected examples of successful applications of the homology modeling technique to pharmaceutically relevant questions. In addition, the strengths and limitations of the application of homology models during all phases of the drug discovery process are discussed.
02say5f1 The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak caused by SARS-CoV-2 has triggered global panic. We have conducted an anonymous online survey of Asian medical students in Poland to assess whether they experience any form of prejudice related to the ongoing pandemic. As demonstrated, the COVID-19 outbreak had triggered xenophobic reactions toward students of Asian-origin (n=85) before the first SARS-CoV-2 case was confirmed in Poland. Facing prejudice, including discrimination related to COVID-19, may add to feelings of isolation of students of Asian origin who study abroad, and affect career development, especially for students. We recommend that universities should proactively develop policies that support students, faculty, and staff affected by discriminatory behavior both during the current outbreak and in the future. However, preventing such behaviors should also be enforced by national authorities.
02wem2u3 Morphogenesis of a modified Bucyrus strain of equine arteritis virus (EAV) in BHK-21 cells was studied. Bacillary tubules were first detected in the cytoplasm 8 h after infection, and mature virions 79 to 122 nm in diameter, 101 nm on average, were mostly observed in the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) at 12 h or later. They had isometrical cores and morphological subunits in the outer layer. Budding occurred from the RER and the outer nuclear membrane, but not from the cell surface. Structural linkage was detected between the tubule and the virus core. Aberrant strands were occasionally demonstrated within the nucleus 12 h after infection, and immunofluorescence and immunogold labeling revealed viral antigen also in the nucleus.
02yyngiv We present a case of a pediatric liver transplant recipient diagnosed with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection four days after receiving a living donor liver allograft from her mother. The recipient was a 6-month-old with end-stage liver disease due to biliary atresia and failed Kasai. The infant had an uncomplicated implantation, excellent graft function and down-trending liver enzymes until developing fevers, diarrhea, and moderate respiratory distress requiring non-invasive respiratory support. SARS-CoV-2 testing (nasal swab Polymerase Chain Reaction) was positive on post-operative day (POD) 4. Liver enzymes peaked ~1000 U/L (5-fold higher than the previous day) on POD 6. Histology demonstrated a mixed picture of moderate acute hepatitis and classical elements of mild to moderate acute cellular rejection. Her hepatitis and respiratory symptoms improved coincident with completing treatment with hydroxychloroquine, reduced immunosuppression, and intravenous gamma globulin (IVIG).
035wtr8q Objetivo:analisar aspectoséticos e regulatórios adotados para a realização de pesquisas científicas, em situação de excepcionalidade provocada pela pandemia daCOVID-19 Método:Estudo exploratório realizado a partir da análise documental e de informações existentes nas páginas da Comissão Nacional de Ética em Pesquisa (Conep), Plataforma Brasil e da Agência Nacional de Vigilância Sanitária (Anvisa) Resultados:A análise dos documentos encontrados nas páginas pesquisadas, revelou que a Conep (incluindo a Plataforma Brasil) e Anvisa divulgaram as estratégias adotadas para dar celeridade à revisão ética e científica para os projetos relacionados à COVID-19 A Conep inicialmente revisou todos os protocolos submetidos e posteriormente dividiu essa responsabilidade com todo osistema A Anvisa divulgou uma Resolução da Diretoria Colegiada (RDC) e três Notas Técnicas contendo procedimentos extraordinários e temporários para a realização de pesquisas clínicas com medicamentos, estudos de bioequivalência e produtos para terapia avançada Conclusão:As medidas adotadas demonstraram efetividade, considerando-se que a Conep avaliou até o dia 20/04/2020, 146 protocolos de pesquisas provenientes de todo o Brasil e de diferentes áreas do conhecimento, incluindo 30 ensaios clínicos Essas pesquisas representam a possibilidade de produzir evidências para o enfrentamento da doença,assim comoa proteção das pessoas mais vulneráveis nesse contexto (AU)
03om2ve6 Tracheostomy is a common procedure in head and neck surgery and emergency medicine to secure a patent airway. Surgeons should always be aware of anatomical variants of the branches of the aortic arch, which could lead to life-threatening complications. Open tracheostomy is the safest emergency procedure.
03s9spbi (1) Background: The virulence of coronavirus diseases due to viruses like SARS-CoV or MERS-CoV decreases in humid and hot weather. The putative temperature dependence of infectivity by the new coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 or covid-19 has a high predictive medical interest. (2) Methods: External temperature and new covid-19 cases in 21 countries and in the French administrative regions were collected from public data. Associations between epidemiological parameters of the new case dynamics and temperature were examined using an ARIMA model. (3) Results: We show that, in the first stages of the epidemic, the velocity of contagion decreases with country- or region-wise temperature. (4) Conclusions: Results indicate that high temperatures diminish initial contagion rates, but seasonal temperature effects at later stages of the epidemy remain questionable. Confinement policies and other eviction rules should account for climatological heterogeneities, in order to adapt the public health decisions to possible geographic or seasonal gradients.
03sazilk This guideline is applicable to the health protection requirements of large indoor stadiums which are reconstructed as treatment sites for the Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia (NPC) patients with mild symptoms during the outbreak. Focusing on the health emergency scenario of severe virus infectious diseases and atypical places where NPC patients with mild symptom gather, from perspectives of functional zones, hygiene facilities, personal protection, and management system, health risk protection recommendations and countermeasures are comprehensively proposed to mainly protect staffs and surrounding environment. The implementation of this guideline will provide technique support for emergency requirements of indoor stadiums reconstructed as mobile cabin hospitals.
03si5y5h This report describes early exploratory analysis of ICD-10-CM code U07.1 (2019-nCoV acute respiratory disease [COVID-19]) to assess the use of administrative data for case ascertainment, syndromic surveillance, and future epidemiological studies. Out of the 2,950 possible COVID-19 cases identified between 1 April 2020 and 4 May 2020, 600 (20.3%) were detected in the Defense Medical Surveillance System (DMSS) and not in the Disease Reporting System internet (DRSi) or in Health Level 7 laboratory data from the Composite Health Care System. Among the 150 out of 600 cases identified exclusively in the DMSS and selected for Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) review, 16 (10.7%) had a certified positive lab result in AHLTA, 17 (11.3%) met Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) criteria for a probable case, 46 (30.7%) were not cases based on CSTE criteria, and 71 (47.3%) had evidence of a positive lab result from an outside source. Lack of full capture of lab results may continue to be a challenge as the variety of available tests expands. Administrative data may provide an important stopgap measure for detecting lab positive cases, pending incorporation of new COVID-19 tests and standardization of test and result nomenclature.
047xpt2c A novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, also called novel coronavirus 2019 (nCoV-19), started to circulate among humans around December 2019, and it is now widespread as a global pandemic. The disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus is called COVID-19, which is highly contagious and has an overall mortality rate of 6.96% as of May 4, 2020. There is no vaccine or antiviral available for SARS-CoV-2. In this study, we report our discovery of inhibitors targeting the SARS-CoV-2 main protease (M(pro)). Using the FRET-based enzymatic assay, several inhibitors including boceprevir, GC-376, and calpain inhibitors II, and XII were identified to have potent activity with single-digit to submicromolar IC(50) values in the enzymatic assay. The mechanism of action of the hits was further characterized using enzyme kinetic studies, thermal shift binding assays, and native mass spectrometry. Significantly, four compounds (boceprevir, GC-376, calpain inhibitors II and XII) inhibit SARS-CoV-2 viral replication in cell culture with EC(50) values ranging from 0.49 to 3.37 μM. Notably, boceprevir, calpain inhibitors II and XII represent novel chemotypes that are distinct from known M(pro) inhibitors. A complex crystal structure of SARS-CoV-2 M(pro) with GC-376, determined at 2.15 Å resolution with three monomers per asymmetric unit, revealed two unique binding configurations, shedding light on the molecular interactions and protein conformational flexibility underlying substrate and inhibitor binding by M(pro). Overall, the compounds identified herein provide promising starting points for the further development of SARS-CoV-2 therapeutics.
04k8yikf The purpose of this research is to assess the effect of Voki, a tool of web 2.0 on students’ academic achievement and attitudes towards English courses. The study group of this research, using a quasi-experimental design with a pretest-posttest control group, consists of 5th-grade students at a public secondary school in the Merkezefendi district of Denizli province, Turkey. In the experiment group, the “Party Time” unit was taught via Voki-supported activities while the same unit was taught according to the current curriculum without using Voki in the control group. The entire process of the experiment lasted 6 weeks. In the study, the academic achievement test and attitude scale towards English courses (Cronbach’s Alpha = 0.92) were used to measure dependent variables. The normality distributions of the data were examined after the data were collected, and it was decided to analyze the data through the mean, standard deviation, and independent-sample t-test. According to the results of the research, there was an increase in the achievement test scores of both groups in the English lesson. However, a statistically significant difference was observed in the speaking section of the experimental group in the achievement test. There was no significant difference between the attitudes of the groups towards English courses. It is therefore recommended that English teachers should use Voki application in speaking activities.
04l3474h Abstract We consider the mathematical model for the viral dynamics of HIV-1 introduced in Rong et al. (2007) [37]. One main feature of this model is that an eclipse stage for the infected cells is included and cells in this stage may revert to the uninfected class. The viral dynamics is described by four nonlinear ordinary differential equations. In Rong et al. (2007) [37], the stability of the infected equilibrium has been analyzed locally. Here, we perform the global stability analysis using two techniques, the Lyapunov direct method and the geometric approach to stability, based on the higher-order generalization of Bendixsonʼs criterion. We obtain sufficient conditions written in terms of the system parameters. Numerical simulations are also provided to give a more complete representation of the system dynamics.
04lfz30c Abstract Background Human coronavirus HKU1 (HCoV-HKU1) is a recently identified coronavirus with a global distribution and known to cause mainly respiratory infections. Objectives To investigate the seroepidemiology of HKU1 infections in our local population. Study design An ELISA-based IgG antibody detection assay using recombinant HCoV-HKU1 nucleocapsid and spike (S) proteins (genotype A) were developed for the diagnosis of CoV-HKU1 infections, Additionally, a neutralization antibody assay using the HCoV-HKU1 pseudotyped virus was developed to detect the presence of neutralizing antibodies in serum with antibody positivity in an S protein-based ELISA. Results Results of the recombinant S protein-based ELISA were validated with Western blot, immunofluorescence analysis and flow cytometry. The coupled results demonstrated good correlation with Spearmen's coefficient of 0.94. Seroepidemiological study in a local hospital-based setting using this newly developed ELISA showed steadily increasing HCoV-HKU1 seroprevalence in childhood and early adulthood, from 0% in the age group of <10 years old to a plateau of 21.6% in the age group of 31–40 years old. Conclusions Our study demonstrated the usefulness of the S-based ELISA which could be applied to future epidemiological studies of HCoV-HKU1 in other localities.
04t2oee5 Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are specialized in rapid and massive secretion of type I interferon (IFN-α/β) in response to foreign nucleic acids. Combined with their antigen presentation capacity, this powerful functionality enables pDCs to orchestrate innate and adaptive immune responses. pDCs combine features of both lymphocytes and classical dendritic cells and display unique molecular adaptations to nucleic acid sensing and IFN production. In the decade since the identification of the pDC as a distinct immune cell type, our understanding of its molecular underpinnings and role in immunity has progressed rapidly. Here we review select aspects of pDC biology including cell fate establishment and plasticity, specific molecular mechanisms of pDC function, and the role of pDCs in T cell responses, antiviral immunity, and autoimmune diseases. Important unresolved questions remain in these areas, promising exciting times in pDC research for years to come.
0533r1yj This work investigates the formulation and in vivo efficacy of dendritic cell (DC) targeted plasmid DNA loaded biotinylated chitosan nanoparticles for nasal immunization against nucleocapsid (N) protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) as antigen. The induction of antigen-specific mucosal and systemic immune response at the site of virus entry is a major challenge for vaccine design. Here, we designed a strategy for noninvasive receptor mediated gene delivery to nasal resident DCs. The pDNA loaded biotinylated chitosan nanoparticles were prepared using a complex coacervation process and characterized for size, shape, surface charge, plasmid DNA loading and protection against nuclease digestion. The pDNA loaded biotinylated chitosan nanoparticles were targeted with bifunctional fusion protein (bfFp) vector for achieving DC selective targeting. The bfFp is a recombinant fusion protein consisting of truncated core-streptavidin fused with anti-DEC-205 single chain antibody (scFv). The core-streptavidin arm of fusion protein binds with biotinylated nanoparticles, while anti-DEC-205 scFv imparts targeting specificity to DC DEC-205 receptor. We demonstrate that intranasal administration of bfFp targeted formulations along with anti-CD40 DC maturation stimuli enhanced magnitude of mucosal IgA as well as systemic IgG against N protein. The strategy led to the detection of augmented levels of N protein specific systemic IgG and nasal IgA antibodies. However, following intranasal delivery of naked pDNA no mucosal and systemic immune responses were detected. A parallel comparison of targeted formulations using intramuscular and intranasal routes showed that the intramuscular route is superior for induction of systemic IgG responses compared with the intranasal route. Our results suggest that targeted pDNA delivery through a noninvasive intranasal route can be a strategy for designing low-dose vaccines.
0591zxc7 Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a complication of COVID-19. However, the incidence of AKI in COVID-19 varies among studies. Thus, we aimed to evaluate the pooled incidence of AKI and its association with mortality in patients with COVID-19 using a meta-analysis. We search Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library for eligible publications reporting the clinical characteristics of patients with COVID-19 without language restriction. Incidence of AKI and mortality were reported. Meta-regression was used to describe the association between outcomes. From 26 studies (n=5497), the pooled incidence of AKI in patients with COVID-19 was 8.4% (95% CI 6.0% to 11.7%) with a pooled incidence of renal replacement therapy of 3.6% (95% CI 1.8% to 7.1%). The incidence of AKI was higher in critically ill patients (19.9%) compared with hospitalized patients (7.3%). The pooled estimated odds ratio for mortality from AKI was 13.33 (95% CI 4.05 to 43.91). No potential publication bias was detected. By using meta-regression analyses, the incidence of AKI was positively associated with mortality after adjusted for age and sex (Q=26.18; p=0.02). Moreover, age (p<0.01), diabetes (p=0.02), hypertension (p<0.01) and baseline serum creatinine levels (p=0.04) were positively associated with AKI incidence in adjusted models. In conclusion, AKI is present in 8.3% of overall patients with COVID-19 and in 19.9% of critically ill patients with COVID-19. Presence of AKI is associated with 13-fold increased risk of mortality. Age, diabetes, hypertension, and baseline serum creatinine levels are associated with increased AKI incidence.
05d1mhkq This study describes a spring 2013 outbreak of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDv), using data from 222 swine sites in 14 counties area in 4 contiguous states in the United States. During the outbreak, the premises-level incidence of PEDv was 40.5 percent (90/222 sites). One of the three companies from which data were collected had a lower incidence (19.5 percent) than the other two companies (41.1 and 47.2 percent). Sow sites had the highest incidence of PEDv during the outbreak (80.0 percent). Spatial analysis showed that PEDv was clustered rather than randomly distributed, which suggested that sites near a positive site had increased risk of acquiring PEDv infection. Meteorological data were used to investigate the hypothesis that PEDv was spread by air. If airborne dissemination played a role in this outbreak, we would expect the direction of disease spread to correlate with the predominant wind direction. Two methods were used to determine the direction of disease spread—linear direction mean analysis in ArcGIS and the direction test in ClusterSeer. The former method indicated PEDv spread was south to slightly southwest, and the latter indicated spread was to the southeast. The predominant wind direction during the month of the outbreak was toward the south, with some southeast and southwest winds; the strongest wind gusts were toward the southwest. These findings support the hypothesis that PEDv was spread by air. The results, however, should be interpreted cautiously because we did not have information on direct and indirect contacts between sites, such as movement of trucks, feed, pigs or people. These types of contacts should be evaluated before pathogen spread is attributed to airborne mechanisms. Although this study did not provide a definitive assessment of airborne spread of PEDv, we believe the findings justify additional research to investigate this potential mechanism of transmission.
05rbpd4w Cough is the most common illness-related reason for ambulatory care visits in the United States. Acute bronchitis is a clinical diagnosis characterized by cough due to acute inflammation of the trachea and large airways without evidence of pneumonia. Pneumonia should be suspected in patients with tachypnea, tachycardia, dyspnea, or lung findings suggestive of pneumonia, and radiography is warranted. Pertussis should be suspected in patients with cough persisting for more than two weeks that is accompanied by symptoms such as paroxysmal cough, whooping cough, and post-tussive emesis, or recent pertussis exposure. The cough associated with acute bronchitis typically lasts about two to three weeks, and this should be emphasized with patients. Acute bronchitis is usually caused by viruses, and antibiotics are not indicated in patients without chronic lung disease. Antibiotics have been shown to provide only minimal benefit, reducing the cough or illness by about half a day, and have adverse effects, including allergic reactions, nausea and vomiting, and Clostridium difficile infection. Evaluation and treatment of bronchitis include ruling out secondary causes for cough, such as pneumonia; educating patients about the natural course of the disease; and recommending symptomatic treatment and avoidance of unnecessary antibiotic use. Strategies to reduce inappropriate antibiotic use include delayed prescriptions, patient education, and calling the infection a chest cold.
05vx82oo Coronavirus disease 2019 is an infectious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. It has taken a toll of lots of lives since its outbreak. Infection prevention at present is an appropriate control measure in addition to other measure like hand hygiene and personal protective equipment (PPE). In our country with a large population, supplying PPE to all the health care workers of all hospitals definitely is an economic burden. Hence we have come up with an economic and simple solution for face mask. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s12070-020-01863-4) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
062qtxgr We used contact tracing to document how COVID‐19 was transmitted across 5 generations involving 10 cases, starting with an individual who became ill on January 27. We calculated the incubation period of the cases as the interval between infection and development of symptoms. The median incubation period was 6.0 days (interquartile range, 3.5‐9.5 days). The last two generations were infected in public places, 3 and 4 days prior to the onset of illness in their infectors. Both had certain underlying conditions and comorbidity. Further identification of how individuals transmit prior to being symptomatic will have important consequences.
066rysjh Background It is to be determined whether people infected with SARS-CoV-2 will develop long-term immunity against SARS-CoV-2 and retain long-lasting protective antibodies after the infection is resolved. This study was to explore to explore the outcomes of IgG antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 in four groups of individuals in Wuhan, China. Methods We included the following four groups of individuals who received both COVID-19 IgM/IgG tests and RT-PCR tests for SARS-CoV-2 from February 29, 2020 to April 29, 2020: 1470 hospitalized patients with COVID-19 from Leishenshan Hospital, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, and Wuhan No. 7 Hospital, 3832 healthcare providers without COVID-19 diagnosis, 19555 general workers, and 1616 other patients to be admitted to the hospital (N=26473). COVID-19 patients who received IgM/IgG tests <21 days after symptom onset were excluded. Results IgG prevalence was 89.8% (95% CI 88.2-91.3%) in COVID-19 patients, 4.0% (95% CI 3.4-4.7%) in healthcare providers, 4.6 (95% CI 4.3-4.9 %) in general workers, and 1.0% in other patients (p all <0.001 for comparisons with COVID-19 patients). IgG prevalence increased significantly by age among healthcare workers and general workers. Prevalence of IgM antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 was 31.4% in COVID-19 patients, 1.5% in healthcare providers, 1.3% in general workers, and 0.2% in other patients. Conclusions Very few healthcare providers had IgG antibodies to SARS-CoV-2, though a significant proportion of them had been infected with the virus. After SARS-CoV-2 infection, people are unlikely to produce long-lasting protective antibodies against this virus.
069keqh8 Abstract Asthma is a growing epidemic worldwide. Exacerbations of asthma have been associated with bacterial and viral respiratory tract infections and air pollution. We correlated the asthma admission rates with fluctuations in respiratory virus activity and traffic-related air pollution, namely particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter ≤10μm (PM10), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), sulfur dioxide (SO2), and ozone (O3). A probabilistic risk assessment framework was developed based on a detrended fluctuation analysis to predict future respiratory virus and air pollutant associated asthma incidence. Results indicated a strong association between asthma admission rate and influenza (r =0.80, p <0.05) and SO2 level (r =0.73, p <0.05) in Taiwan in the period 2001–2008. No significant correlation was found for asthma admission and PM10, O3, NO2, and CO. The proposed fluctuation analysis provides a simple correlation exponent describing the complex interactions of respiratory viruses and air pollutants with asthma. This study revealed that there was a 95% probability of having exceeded 2987 asthma admissions per 100,000 population. It was unlikely (30% probability) that the asthma admission rate exceeded 3492 per 100,000 population. The probability of asthma admission risk can be limited to below 50% by keeping the correlation exponent of influenza to below 0.9. We concluded that fluctuation analysis based risk assessment provides a novel predictor of asthma incidence.
06iv8aws COVID-19 has been causing tragic outcomes all over the world. On one island nation, North Cyprus, that has been politically isolated from the rest of the world due to a very complicated history and political stance, the rapid enforcement of lockdown measures, despite having negative psychological effects, helped interfere with the spread of COVID-19 and flatten the curve. We propose that the traumas of the past may have caused resilient factors when faced with the psychological impact of COVID-19, and lack of trust toward the capacities of governing bodies may have caused people take strict precautions to help contain the spread of the virus. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).
06n81zie The information on severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) that has been gathered up to this point has made it possible to prepare recommendations concerning the equipment needed to protect health workers responsible for patient care and for processing potentially infected samples. Protecting such personnel is a key element in the strategy to control the spread of SARS. The needed equipment includes clothing; footwear; such protective devices as masks, safety glasses, and gloves; disinfectant solutions; laboratory equipment; and materials for obtaining and transporting samples. Prepared by the Western Pacific Regional Office of the World Health Organization, this list will help implement measures to contain the epidemic. The list gives the recommended quantities, specifications for the items, and possible alternatives for some items. This list of equipment is not exhaustive; it is intended to provide a small emergency supply for a period of 3 or 4 days for a single isolation unit with approximately 50 workers. To guarantee the availability of the equipment in the needed quantities, infection control authorities should take into account the number of isolation units needed and the length of time that containment measures will need to be in place. Adequate reserves should be available 24 hours a day, and plans should be made for rapid access to larger stocks in the event of a larger outbreak.
06vah7pq Norovirus is a major etiologic agent in worldwide outbreaks of gastroenteritis associated with food as well as person‐to‐person transmission. The ubiquitous nature of Norovirus necessitates simple and rapid detection methods with high accuracy and sensitivity. To this end, several investigators have evaluated the usefulness of commercial reverse‐transcription loop‐mediated isothermal amplification (RT‐LAMP) kits for detecting Norovirus genogroups I (GI) and II (GII). In previous studies, the conventional Loopamp kit for Norovirus GII showed a relatively high detection rate, while that for Norovirus GI showed a relatively low detection rate. In the present study, clinical Norovirus specimens were used to compare the detection rate of a modified Loopamp kit for Norovirus GI with the rates of the conventional Loopamp kit for Norovirus GI and an “in‐house” RT‐LAMP GI primer set, methods which had a high detection rate. Results from the present study showed that the modified Loopamp kit for Norovirus GI had a higher detection rate for two viral genotypes (GI.3, GI.11). On comparison with an “in‐house” GII primer set using genotype GII.4 viruses circulating recently, the detection rate by the Loopamp kit for Norovirus GII was found to be higher, with a 98% detection rate. These results indicate the applicability of the modified LAMP kit for GI and the conventional LAMP kit for GII for detection of Noroviruses in clinical samples. J. Med. Virol. 81:2072–2078, 2009. © 2009 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.
06w5le5s Most hospitals' disaster plans are extensive and effective at establishing an incident command center, directing material and personnel resources, and triaging patients. However, few organizations have assessed caregivers' needs and fears related to disaster response. When nurses have been interviewed on this topic, findings indicated complex concerns involving fear of loss (e.g., loss of order in their work environment, loss of safe work conditions, loss of freedom to come and go at will, and loss of trust in their hospital's commitment to their best interest). The sobering result of anticipating these losses is fear of abandonment. The purpose of this article is to address factors identified by hospital-based nurses that contribute to their fears of abandonment in a bioterrorism emergency. Hospitals that choose to respond to these concerns will exemplify best practice toward care of the community and care of their own nurses.
06x1tcdn BACKGROUND Extensive tearing of the gluteus muscles (spontaneous or subsequent to hip arthroplasty) is difficult to treat. We are carrying out osseous fixation with securement of the suture anchor by a nonresorbable collagen patch. The objective of this study is to examine the follow-up data of 30 patients and to assess whether the clinical outcomes depended on the extent of the fatty degeneration of the gluteus medius. METHODS Thirty patients (28 female and 2 male) with a mean age of 76.8 ± 4.3 years (68-83 years) were followed for a mean of 46.8 ± 23.1 months (24-101 months). RESULTS Pain improved significantly from a preoperative visual analog scale score of 7.0 ± 1.52 (6-10) to 0.83 ± 0.77 (0-3) 24-month postoperative. The gluteus medius muscle force increased from 2.09 ± 0.81 to 3.3 ± 0.78 using the British Medical Research Council Scale. All patients exhibited a severe limp before the operation. Postoperatively, only 5 patients had a severe limp, while 14 exhibited a mild limp and 11 no limp at all. The modified Harris Hip Score increased from a preoperative value of 44.5 ± 4.2 (26-66) to a value of 81.1 ± 7.79 (60-100) 24-month postoperative. The functional results were dependent on the level of fatty degeneration of the muscle. CONCLUSION The first results for this surgical technique appear to be very promising for the treatment of extensive tearing of the gluteus musculature that has a degree of fatty degeneration less than 75%.
06xf01wf A series of epidemiological explorations has suggested a negative association between national bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccination policy and the prevalence and mortality of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). However, these comparisons are difficult to validate due to broad differences between countries such as socioeconomic status, demographic structure, rural vs. urban settings, time of arrival of the pandemic, number of diagnostic tests and criteria for testing, and national control strategies to limit the spread of COVID-19. We review evidence for a potential biological basis of BCG cross-protection from severe COVID-19, and refine the epidemiological analysis to mitigate effects of potentially confounding factors (e.g., stage of the COVID-19 epidemic, development, rurality, population density, and age structure). A strong correlation between the BCG index, an estimation of the degree of universal BCG vaccination deployment in a country, and COVID-19 mortality in different socially similar European countries was observed (r 2 = 0.88; P = 8 × 10-7), indicating that every 10% increase in the BCG index was associated with a 10.4% reduction in COVID-19 mortality. Results fail to confirm the null hypothesis of no association between BCG vaccination and COVID-19 mortality, and suggest that BCG could have a protective effect. Nevertheless, the analyses are restricted to coarse-scale signals and should be considered with caution. BCG vaccination clinical trials are required to corroborate the patterns detected here, and to establish causality between BCG vaccination and protection from severe COVID-19. Public health implications of a plausible BCG cross-protection from severe COVID-19 are discussed.
06yilajc The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is rapidly spreading throughout the world after emerging in China in December 2019. Currently, there are no approved treatments for COVID-19 based on large clinical trial data, and hence, management involves infection prevention and control measures and supportive care. With anecdotal reports and in vitro studies suggesting that certain medicines already in use for treatment of other conditions could be viable treatment options, there has been an increased demand for these therapies which could have adverse consequences on patients and healthcare systems. Toxicity from these medicines resulting from a mad rush for them at community pharmacies and pressure on physicians to prescribe for individuals who do not have the infection are worth noting. Furthermore, the indiscriminate use of these medicines could result in viral resistance as well as acute shortage such that patients who routinely take them for other conditions may not get them.
07dpy0jn BACKGROUND: Respiratory viruses, such as influenza viruses, initially infect the upper airways but can manifest as severe lower respiratory tract infections in high‐risk patients with significant morbidity and mortality. For syndromic diagnosis, several multiplex nucleic acid amplification tests have been developed for clinics, of which SureX 13 Respiratory Pathogen Multiplex Kit (ResP) can simultaneously detect 13 pathogens directly from airway secretion specimens. The organisms identified are influenza virus A, influenza virus A pdmH1N1 (2009), influenza virus A H3N2, influenza virus B, adenovirus, boca virus, rhinovirus, parainfluenza virus, coronavirus, respiratory syncytial virus, human metapneumovirus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Chlamydia. METHODS: This study provides performance evaluation data of this assay by comparing with pathogen‐specific PCRs from oropharyngeal swab samples. RESULTS: Ten pathogens were detected in this assay, of which rhinovirus, adenovirus, and influenza virus A pdmH1N1 (2009) were the most common. The overall agreement between the ResP and the comparator tests was 93.8%. The ResP demonstrated 86.5% agreement for positive results and 97.8% agreement for negative results. CONCLUSION: The ResP assay demonstrated a highly concordant performance comparing with pathogen‐specific PCRs for detection of respiratory pathogens in oropharyngeal swabs from outpatients and could aid in the diagnosis of respiratory infections in a variety of clinical scenarios.
07kmiwgl INTRODUCTION A superior lumbar hernia, which is also known as a Grynfeltt hernia, is a rare abdominal wall defect that can be primary or secondary to trauma or orthopedic surgery. The anatomic location of a lumbar hernia makes diagnosis and repair challenging. We successfully repaired a lumbar hernia using a single-incision laparoscopic total extraperitoneal approach. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of the use of this surgical technique in the treatment of a primary Grynfeltt hernia. CASE PRESENTATION A 76-year-old Taiwanese man presented to our hospital with a left lower bulging mass noted for over three months. Abdominal computed tomography revealed a left Grynfeltt hernia. We performed a single-incision laparoscopic total extraperitoneal repair. Our patient was discharged uneventfully on the fourth day after the operation. There was no evidence of recurrence after six months of follow-up. CONCLUSION A laparoscopic total extraperitoneal repair for a lumbar hernia provides an excellent operative view and minimal invasiveness. The single-incision technique also provides better cosmetic outcomes. Our experience suggests that the single-incision laparoscopic total extraperitoneal approach may be a feasible and safe alterative to conventional approaches in lumbar hernia repair.
07krl81z After the novel coronavirus disease outbreak first began in Wuhan, China, in December 2019, the viral epidemic has quickly spread across the world, and it is now a major public health concern. Here we present a 21-year-old male with encephalomyelitis following intermittent vomiting and malaise for 4 days. He reported upper respiratory signs and symptoms 2 weeks before this presentation. Two cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analyses were notable for mononuclear pleocytosis, elevated protein (more than 100 mg/dl), and hypoglycorrhachia. Brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) showed bilateral posterior internal capsule lesions extending to the ventral portion of the pons and a marbled splenium hyperintensity pattern. Cervical and thoracic MRI showed longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis (LETM), none of which were enhanced with gadolinium. Both the AQP4 and MOG antibodies were negative. Spiral chest computed tomography (CT) scan confirmed to COVID-19 as did the high IgG level against coronavirus, but the oropharyngeal swabs were negative. Neurological manifestations of COVID-19 have not been adequately studied. Some COVID-19 patients, especially those suffering from a severe disease, are highly likely to have central nervous system (CNS) manifestations. Our case is a post-COVID-19 demyelinating event in the CNS.
07ljynpv Hospital-associated transmission is an important route of spreading the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection and pneumonia (Corona Virus Disease 2019, COVID-19) [1]. Healthcare workers (HCWs) are at high risk while combating COVID-19 at the very frontline, and nosocomial outbreaks among HCWs are not unusual in similar settings; the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak led to over 966 HCW infections with 1.4% deaths in mainland China [2]. As of 11 February 2020, 3019 HCWs might have been infected with 2019-nCov in China, 1716 HCW cases were confirmed by nucleic acid testing[3], and at least 6 HCWs died, including the famous whistleblower Dr Li Wenliang. In view of this severe situation, we are recommending urgent interventions to help to protect HCWs.
07sznk19 The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a modified loop snare technique for retrieval of difficult inferior vena cava (IVC) filters and migrated coils.A retrospective review of Günther Tulip filter retrievals between January 2014 and February 2017 was performed. A total of 316 IVC filter retrievals were attempted. In 25 cases, the standard technique had failed and our modified loop snare technique was subsequently attempted in 21 of these patients.The retrievals were successful in 20 cases (mean dwell time, 42.6 days, range, 14-102 days). The dwell time of the one failure was 46 days. The retrieval rate increased from 92.1% with the standard technique to 98.4% with the combination of the standard and modified loop snare technique. Unsuccessful retrieval was due to migration and endothelialization of the filter. This technique can also be used to remove migrated coils which cannot be captured by standard techniques. There were no complications from the retrievals.Tilt and endothelialization of filters are the main factors resulting in unsuccessful retrievals with the standard technique. In the present study, we describe an alternative technique for difficult IVC filter retrievals, which can also be used to capture migrated coils and occluders in the aorta and heart.
07xwlau9 Practitioners may be called on to treat rodents with respiratory diseases or to advise clients concerning the care of these rodents. Respiratory diseases of mice, rats, guinea pigs, and Syrian hamsters are well known because of the use of these species in research, whereas few or no reports of respiratory disease in rodents of other species exist. Features of the respiratory diseases of these four commonly encountered species are reviewed, including causes; clinical signs; diagnostic procedures; preventive measures; and, where appropriate, therapies.
07z1deqg The recent editorial by Rhodes et al considered latitude and mentioned one mechanism that vitamin D is important in regulating and suppressing the inflammatory response of cytokines of respiratory epithelial cells and macrophages to various pathogens, including respiratory viruses and preventing cytokine storm and the subsequent acute respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) (1).
08dhryvn BACKGROUND: The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) was discovered in China in December 2019. It has developed into a threatening international public health emergency. With the exception of China, the number of cases continues to increase worldwide. A number of studies about disease diagnosis and treatment have been carried out, and many clinically proven effective results have been achieved. Although information technology can improve the transferring of such knowledge to clinical practice rapidly, data interoperability is still a challenge due to the heterogeneous nature of hospital information systems. This issue becomes even more serious if the knowledge for diagnosis and treatment is updated rapidly as is the case for COVID-19. An open, semantic-sharing, and collaborative-information modeling framework is needed to rapidly develop a shared data model for exchanging data among systems. openEHR is such a framework and is supported by many open software packages that help to promote information sharing and interoperability. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to develop a shared data model based on the openEHR modeling approach to improve the interoperability among systems for the diagnosis and treatment of COVID-19. METHODS: The latest Guideline of COVID-19 Diagnosis and Treatment in China was selected as the knowledge source for modeling. First, the guideline was analyzed and the data items used for diagnosis and treatment, and management were extracted. Second, the data items were classified and further organized into domain concepts with a mind map. Third, searching was executed in the international openEHR Clinical Knowledge Manager (CKM) to find the existing archetypes that could represent the concepts. New archetypes were developed for those concepts that could not be found. Fourth, these archetypes were further organized into a template using Ocean Template Editor. Fifth, a test case of data exchanging between the clinical data repository and clinical decision support system based on the template was conducted to verify the feasibility of the study. RESULTS: A total of 203 data items were extracted from the guideline in China, and 16 domain concepts (16 leaf nodes in the mind map) were organized. There were 22 archetypes used to develop the template for all data items extracted from the guideline. All of them could be found in the CKM and reused directly. The archetypes and templates were reviewed and finally released in a public project within the CKM. The test case showed that the template can facilitate the data exchange and meet the requirements of decision support. CONCLUSIONS: This study has developed the openEHR template for COVID-19 based on the latest guideline from China using openEHR modeling methodology. It represented the capability of the methodology for rapidly modeling and sharing knowledge through reusing the existing archetypes, which is especially useful in a new and fast-changing area such as with COVID-19.
08ics9u1 Hemophilia is a congenital disorder due to the deficiency of the activity of factor VIII (classical hemophilia A) or IX (Christmas disease or hemophilia B). Bleeding is common and may result in long‐term complications or even death. Bleeding may be treated or prevented by infusion of factor concentrates however these drugs are not without risk. Clinicians often feel ill prepared to provide accurate and impartial information regarding these drugs. This review will provide the reader with an historical yet up to date perspective on blood safety as it relates to the choice of concentrates to treat hemophilia. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2006;47:245–254. © 2006 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.
08qoho81 The risk of a pandemic with a virulent form of influenza is acknowledged by the World Health Organization (WHO) and other agencies. Current vaccine production facilities would be unable to meet the global requirement for vaccine. As a possible supplement a DNA vaccine may be appropriate, and bioprocess engineering factors bearing on the use of existing biopharmaceutical and antibiotics plants to produce it are described. This approach addresses the uncertainty of timing of a pandemic that precludes purpose‐built facilities. The strengths and weaknesses of alternative downstream processing routes are analyzed, and several gaps in public domain information are addressed. The conclusion is that such processing would be challenging but feasible.
090yk40o BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Clinical risks and advantages of both continuous feeding and intermittent feeding for preterm infants have been presented in previous studies. To determine the most appropriate feeding method for low-birth-weight infants, a meta-analysis was conducted. SUBJECTS/METHODS: Articles related to this topic were searched in PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library electronic database from the onset to May 2019. Heterogeneity analysis was performed with Chi-square and I(2) test. Pooled analysis was based on fixed effects model, if heterogeneity between the eligible studies was negligible (I(2) < 50%, P > 0.05). In contrast, a random effects model was carried out. The quality of including studies were evaluated by Cochrane assessment tool. RESULTS: A total of 1030 articles identified. Altogether, eight articles including 707 infants were included in final analysis based on eligibility criteria. In continuous feeding infants, time to achieving full feeds was longer (weight mean difference 0.98 (95% CI 0.26–1.71, P = 0.008) days) compared with intermittent feeding infants. Pooled analysis indicated there were no significant difference in other variables such as feeding intolerance, duration of hospitalization, days to regain birth weight, days to first successful oral feeding, duration of parenteral feeding, weight growth, length increment, head circumference growth, proven necrotizing enterocolitis, and probable necrotizing enterocolitis. In subgroup analysis for birth weight (<1000 g and >1000 g), we did not identify significant difference in time to full feeds, time to regain birth weight, and duration of hospitalization. CONCLUSIONS: Intermittent feeding may be more beneficial for low-birth weight infants, However, well-designed studies and evidenced-based clinical practice are required to determine the most appropriate feeding method for premature infants with low birth weight.
0952gzw1 Co-infection by multiple parasites is common within individuals. Interactions between co-infecting parasites include resource competition, direct competition and immune-mediated interactions and each are likely to alter the dynamics of single parasites. We posit that co-infection is a driver of variation in parasite establishment and growth, ultimately altering the production of parasite transmission stages. To test this hypothesis, three different treatment groups of laboratory mice were infected with the gastrointestinal helminth Heligmosomoides polygyrus, the respiratory bacterial pathogen Bordetella bronchiseptica lux(+) or co-infected with both parasites. To follow co-infection simultaneously, self-bioluminescent bacteria were used to quantify infection in vivo and in real-time, while helminth egg production was monitored in real-time using faecal samples. Co-infection resulted in high bacterial loads early in the infection (within the first 5 days) that could cause host mortality. Co-infection also produced helminth ‘super-shedders’; individuals that chronically shed the helminth eggs in larger than average numbers. Our study shows that co-infection may be one of the underlying mechanisms for the often-observed high variance in parasite load and shedding rates, and should thus be taken into consideration for disease management and control. Further, using self-bioluminescent bacterial reporters allowed quantification of the progression of infection within the whole animal of the same individuals at a fine temporal scale (daily) and significantly reduced the number of animals used (by 85%) compared with experiments that do not use in vivo techniques. Thus, we present bioluminescent imaging as a novel, non-invasive tool offering great potential to be taken forward into other applications of infectious disease ecology.
09cov26b Abstract A real-time reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (real-time RT-LAMP) method was applied for detecting the replicase polyprotein-encoding gene of yellow head virus (YHV) in shrimp, Penaeus monodon. It is a novel, gene-specific assay that amplifies nucleic acid with high specificity, sensitivity and rapidity under isothermal conditions using a set of six specially designed primers that recognize eight distinct sequences of the target gene. This method works with even low copies of DNA and is based on magnesium pyrophosphate turbidity detection by an inexpensive photometer for quantitative analysis. A user-friendly protocol was developed with optimal conditions standardized at 63°C for 60min. With this protocol, the assay sensitivity was 10 times higher than the widely used YHV nested RT-PCR system. Cross-reactivity analysis using other shrimp virus DNA/cDNA and YHV-negative shrimp demonstrated high specificity of the assay. The real-time RT-LAMP method was performed also for an internal control gene, EF-1α, to compare with the expressions of the YHV gene in different organs of infected shrimp, and the resulting standard curves showed high correlation coefficient values. These results suggest that this assay is applicable widely as a new quantitative detection method in the pursuit of YHV-free shrimp culture.
09j1y7dq The 2nd Cross Company Respiratory Symposium (CCRS), held in Horsham, U.K. in 2012, brought together representatives from across the pharmaceutical industry with expert academics, in the common interest of improving the design and translational predictiveness of in vivo models of respiratory disease. Organized by the respiratory representatives of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Federations (EFPIA) group of companies involved in the EU-funded project (U-BIOPRED), the aim of the symposium was to identify state-of-the-art improvements in the utility and design of models of respiratory disease, with a view to improving their translational potential and reducing wasteful animal usage. The respiratory research and development community is responding to the challenge of improving translation in several ways: greater collaboration and open sharing of data, careful selection of the species, complexity and chronicity of the models, improved practices in preclinical research, continued refinement in models of respiratory diseases and their sub-types, greater understanding of the biology underlying human respiratory diseases and their sub-types, and finally greater use of human (and especially disease-relevant) cells, tissues and explants. The present review highlights these initiatives, combining lessons from the symposium and papers published in Clinical Science arising from the symposium, with critiques of the models currently used in the settings of asthma, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and COPD. The ultimate hope is that this will contribute to a more rational, efficient and sustainable development of a range of new treatments for respiratory diseases that continue to cause substantial morbidity and mortality across the world.
09nr9dho BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2 or Covid-19), which began as an epidemic in China and spread globally as a pandemic, has necessitated resource management to meet emergency needs of Covid-19 patients and other emergent cases. We have conducted a survey to analyze caseload and measures to adapt indications for a perception of crisis. METHODS: We constructed a questionnaire to survey a snapshot of neurosurgical activity, resources, and indications during 1 week with usual activity in December 2019 and 1 week during SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in March 2020. The questionnaire was sent to 34 neurosurgical departments in Europe; 25 departments returned responses within 5 days. RESULTS: We found unexpectedly large differences in resources and indications already before the pandemic. Differences were also large in how much practice and resources changed during the pandemic. Neurosurgical beds and neuro-intensive care beds were significantly decreased from December 2019 to March 2020. The utilization of resources decreased via less demand for care of brain injuries and subarachnoid hemorrhage, postponing surgery and changed surgical indications as a method of rationing resources. Twenty departments (80%) reduced activity extensively, and the same proportion stated that they were no longer able to provide care according to legitimate medical needs. CONCLUSION: Neurosurgical centers responded swiftly and effectively to a sudden decrease of neurosurgical capacity due to relocation of resources to pandemic care. The pandemic led to rationing of neurosurgical care in 80% of responding centers. We saw a relation between resources before the pandemic and ability to uphold neurosurgical services. The observation of extensive differences of available beds provided an opportunity to show how resources that had been restricted already under normal conditions translated to rationing of care that may not be acceptable to the public of seemingly affluent European countries.
09qp0sts Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a global pandemic that is caused by a novel coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). Data from several countries have demonstrated higher morbidity and mortality among individuals with chronic metabolic diseases such as diabetes mellitus (DM). In this review, we explore the contributing factors for poorer prognosis in these individuals. As a significant proportion of patients with COVID-19 also have DM, this adds another layer of complexity to their management. We explore potential interactions between anti-diabetic medications and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system inhibitors with COVID-19. Suggested recommendations for the use of anti-diabetic medications in COVID-19 patients with DM are provided. We also review pertinent clinical considerations in the management of diabetic ketoacidosis in the COVID-19 patient. In addition, we aim to increase the awareness of clinicians to the metabolic effects of promising drug therapies for COVID-19. Finally, we highlight the importance of timely vaccinations for patients with DM.
09vpehvf Zinc is required for multiple cellular tasks, and especially the immune system depends on a sufficient availability of this essential trace element. During the last decades, many studies attempted to affect the outcome of various diseases by zinc supplementation. These efforts either aimed at supporting immunity by zinc administration or at correcting a loss of zinc secondary to the disease to restore the zinc-dependent functions of the immune system. This review aims to summarize the respective findings and to discuss possible molecular mechanisms by which zinc could influence viral, bacterial, and parasitic infections, autoimmune diseases, and the response to vaccination. Zinc supplementation in diseases such as diarrhea, chronic hepatitis C, shigellosis, leprosy, tuberculosis, pneumonia, acute lower respiratory infection, and leishmaniasis seems beneficial. In contrast, the results for the common cold and malaria are still not conclusive, and zinc was ineffective in most vaccination and rheumatoid arthritis studies. For AIDS and type 1 diabetes, zinc supplementation may even be a risk factor for increased mortality or deterioration of the glucose metabolism, respectively. In these cases, zinc supplementation should be used with care and limited to clearly zinc-deficient individuals.
0a0motaj With the shortage of physicians and surgeons and increase in demand worldwide due to situations such as the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a growing interest in finding solutions to help address the problem. A solution to this problem would be to use neurotechnology to provide them augmented cognition, senses and action for optimal diagnosis and treatment. Consequently, doing so can negatively impact them and others. We argue that applying neurotechnology for human enhancement in physicians and surgeons can cause injustices, and harm to them and patients. In this paper, we will first describe the augmentations and neurotechnologies that can be used to achieve the relevant augmentations for physicians and surgeons. We will then review selected ethical concerns discussed within literature, discuss the neuroengineering behind using neurotechnology for augmentation purposes, then conclude with an analysis on outcomes and ethical issues of implementing human augmentation via neurotechnology in medical and surgical practice.
0anag9ax Background: Clinical ophthalmological guidelines encourage the assessment of potential benefits and harms when deciding whether to perform elective ophthalmology procedures during the COVID-19 pandemic, in order to minimize the risk of disease transmission. Method: We performed probability calculations to estimate COVID-19 infection status and likelihood of disease transmission among neovascular age-related macular degeneration patients and health care workers during anti-VEGF procedures, at various community prevalence levels of COVID-19. We then applied the expected burden of COVID-19 illness and death expressed through health-adjusted life-years (HALYs) lost. We compared these results to the expected disease burden of severe visual impairment if sight protecting anti-VEGF injections were not performed. Results: Our calculations estimate for a single treatment, where the background rate of COVID-19 in the community is 1000 active cases per million population, and full personal protective equipment (PPE) is available, that the benefits of treatment are greater than the expected harms to the patient and immediate health care team, provided the probability of severe visual impairment without treatment is >0.001%. Without effective PPE, and with a COVID-19 prevalence of 200,000 per million, an 8.5% chance of severe visual impairment could still justify monthly injections for six months. Conclusion: In most cases analysed, the reduced disease burden from avoiding visual impairment outweighs the expected HALYs lost from COVID-19 transmission. This finding is driven by the fact that HALYs lost when someone suffers severe visual impairment for 5 years are equivalent to nearly 400 moderate cases of infectious disease lasting 2 weeks each.
0b1c7mtf The nsp14 protein, an exoribonuclease of the DEDD superfamily encoded by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), was expressed in fusion with different affinity tags. The recombinant nsp14 proteins with either GST fusion or 6-histidine tag were shown to possess ribonuclease activity but nsp14 with a short MGHHHHHHGS tag sequence at the N-terminus increased the solubility of nsp14 protein and facilitated the protein purification. Mutations of the conserved residues of nsp14 resulted in significant attenuation but not abolishment of the ribonuclease activity. Combination of fluorescence and circular dichroism spectroscopy analyses showed that the conformational stability of nsp14 protein varied with many external factors such as pH, temperature and presence of denaturing chemicals. These results provide new information on the structural features and would be helpful for further characterization of this functionally important protein.
0b2blj2c Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) is the etiologic agent of a highly lethal pneumonia. Here, we report the full-genome sequence of the Jordan-N3/2012 strain after serial passage in two distinct mammalian cell lines. The genome exhibits noteworthy stability, which may inform the development of vaccines and therapeutics used to treat infection with this virus.
0b9ry64w As combined new factors could further complicate the food supply and health security for regional countries, new perspective on human security should be prioritized on securing health security in the region. In recent years, food production and supply has been affected by unpredictable climate change and unaccountable manmade factors in the region. With increased pressure from food security issues, personal health and human security is badly affected. It poses a threat to human security and becomes a concern of all states. In the new era, the pressing reality for all countries is that there is no exception for anyone before a pandemic. Threats to human security become not only a national security issue but also a transnational challenge.
0bahr3v5 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has ravaged many urban and high-density areas in the USA. However, rural areas (despite their low population density) may be especially vulnerable to poor outcomes from COVID-19, owing to limited healthcare infrastructure, long distances to advanced health care, and population characteristics (e.g., high tobacco use, hypertension, obesity, older age). A panel of experts who are actively engaged in treating and managing COVID-19 at a rural academic center was convened to address this topic. In this commentary, we provide readers with some specific issues faced by rural healthcare providers and offer guidance in overcoming these challenges. This guidance includes alternative ventilator strategies, personal protective equipment (PPE), and common therapeutic options.
0bfmbge3 To reduce the spread of COVID-19, the World Health Organization and the majority of governments have recommended that the entire human population should 'stay-at-home'. A significant proportion of the population live alone or are vulnerable to mental health problems yet, in the vast majority of cases, individuals in social isolation have no access to mental healthcare. The only resource is people themselves using self-help, self-medication and self-care. During prolonged COVID-19 isolation, an in-built system of homeostasis can help rebalance activity, thought and feeling. Increased physical activity enables a reset of physical and mental well-being. During periods of lockdown, it is recommended that exercise should be as vigorously promoted as social distancing itself.
0blzt8nu BACKGROUND Ventral hernia repair in obese patients has a high perioperative morbidity and recurrence. The laparoscopic approach may reduce those rates. This study compares those outcomes following laparoscopic ventral hernia repair (LVHR) with the standard open approach (OVHR) in obese patients. METHODS A retrospective review of patients with a BMI > 30 kg/m(2) that had undergone ventral hernia repair (VHR) between 2004 and 2012 was included. Demographics, perioperative complications and recurrence rates were compared between the two approaches. Hernia size was divided into three categories (small, medium and large). Physical examination and CT imaging mainly evaluated recurrences. RESULTS A total of 186 patients that underwent VHR were included, 35 patients had LVHR. Groups did not differ in terms of age, gender, ASA score, BMI and in rates of primary or incisional ventral hernia repair. The laparoscopic repairs were performed on significantly larger hernias (48.6 vs. 28.9% categorized as large, p = 0.02). The operative time was significantly longer in the laparoscopic repair (102 vs. 67 min, p < 0.01). Overall, perioperative complications following LVHR and OVHR were 17.1 versus 20.5% (p = 0.53). Wound-related complications were lower in the LVHR group (5.7 vs. 15.8%, p = 0.09). After a mean follow-up of 58 months, recurrence rates in the laparoscopic and open approaches were 20.0 versus 27.1% (p = 0.28), respectively. Advanced age was found to be a significantly protector from recurrence (OR -0.03; 95% CI 0.96-0.01, p = 0.01). OVHR carries an odds ratio of 2.7 (95% CI 0.88-8.2, p = 0.07) for recurrence compared with OVHR. CONCLUSIONS The risk of recurrence after VHR in obese patients is high. Laparoscopic approach offers a better perioperative and recurrence outcome. We believe that change in those outcomes is possible through weight loss procedures, but may need further studies to be conducted in the form of prospective randomized trials.
0bwf8f1i Human rhinoviruses (HRV) are one of the major causes of common cold in humans and are also associated with acute asthma and bronchial illness. Heat-shock protein 90 (Hsp90), a molecular chaperone, is an important host factor for the replication of single-strand RNA viruses. In the current study, we examined the effect of the Hsp90 inhibitor pochonin D, in vitro and in vivo, using a murine model of human rhinovirus type 1B (HRV1B) infection. Our data suggested that Hsp90 inhibition significantly reduced the inflammatory cytokine production and lung damage caused by HRV1B infection. The viral titer was significantly lowered in HRV1B-infected lungs and in Hela cells upon treatment with pochonin D. Infiltration of innate immune cells including granulocytes and monocytes was also reduced in the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) by pochonin D treatment after HRV1B infection. Histological analysis of the lung and respiratory tract showed that pochonin D protected the mice from HRV1B infection. Collectively, our results suggest that the Hsp90 inhibitor, pochonin D, could be an attractive antiviral therapeutic for treating HRV infection.
0ccfitco Contact tracing is an important method to control the spread of an infectious disease such as COVID-19. However, existing contact tracing methods alone cannot provide sufficient coverage and do not successfully address privacy concerns of the participating entities. Current solutions do not utilize the huge volume of data stored in business databases and individual digital devices. This information is typically stored in data silos and cannot be used due to regulations in place. To successfully unlock the potential of contact tracing, we need to consider both data utilization from multiple sources and the privacy of the participating parties. To this end, we propose BeeTrace, a unified platform that breaks data silos and deploys state-of-the-art cryptographic protocols to guarantee privacy goals.
0ce7uyga As the novel coronavirus spreads across the world, concerns regarding the spreading of misinformation about it are also growing. Here we estimate the prevalence of links to low-credibility information on Twitter during the outbreak, and the role of bots in spreading these links. We find that the combined volume of tweets linking to low-credibility information is comparable to the volume of New York Times articles and CDC links. Content analysis reveals a politicization of the pandemic. The majority of this content spreads via retweets. Social bots are involved in both posting and amplifying low-credibility information, although the majority of volume is generated by likely humans. Some of these accounts appear to amplify low-credibility sources in a coordinated fashion.
0cfq52hn Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a multisystemic condition caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) with manifestations ranging from mild upper respiratory symptoms to cytokine storm causing acute respiratory distress syndrome Pancreatic exocrine tissue and endocrine islets both express angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), the proven receptor for SARS-CoV-2 cell internalization An increase in pancreatic enzymes has been increasingly recognized in patients with COVID-19, but little is known about the real prevalence of acute pancreatitis in this population We report a case of acute acalculous pancreatitis in a COVID-19 patient LEARNING POINTS: Acute pancreatitis may be a manifestation of SARS-CoV-2 infection Future studies must address the real impact of pancreatic involvement in COVID-19 patients
0ckt6f92 Abstract Virus taxonomy is the classification of viruses into categories called taxa and the development and implementation of a standardized nomenclature for taxa. Whereas virus taxonomy has been a niche subspecialty over many decades, the field has recently gained importance due to the exponentially increasing number of new viruses discovered by next-generation sequencing methods. The expanded known global virome and associated viral genome sequence space gradually morph virus taxonomy from a phenotype-based and inherently subjective process, focussing on shared or distinct, often arbitrarily chosen biophysical characteristics of virions to a significant subspecialty of systematic evolutionary biology. Indeed, current virus classification is increasingly performed using ever more complex phylogenetic approaches that move researchers closer to a rudimentary understanding of the origin, evolution, relatedness, and diversification of viruses over eons.
0co6m9af Antiviral interferons (IFN-alpha/beta) are possibly responsible for the high tolerance of bats to zoonotic viruses. Previous studies focused on the IFN system of megabats (suborder Yinpterochiroptera). We present statistically robust RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data on transcriptomes of cells from the “microbat” Myotis daubentonii (suborder Yangochiroptera) responding at 6 and 24 h to either an IFN-inducing virus or treatment with IFN. Our data reveal genes triggered only by virus, either in both humans and Myotis (CCL4, IFNL3, CH25H), or exclusively in Myotis (STEAP4). Myotis cells also express a series of conserved IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) and an unusually high paralog number of the antiviral ISG BST2 (tetherin) but lack several ISGs that were described for megabats (EMC2, FILIP1, IL17RC, OTOGL, SLC24A1). Also, in contrast to megabats, we detected neither different IFN-alpha subtypes nor an unusually high baseline expression of IFNs. Thus, Yangochiroptera microbats, represented by Myotis, may possess an IFN system with distinctive features.
0cusg8d1 The increasing number cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) infections in the general population in Indonesia raises questions concerning the public’s knowledge and attitudes regarding this pandemic. To determine the correlation between the general public’s knowledge and attitudes regarding the COVID-19 outbreak 1 month after the first cases were reported in Indonesia. This cross-sectional study was conducted between early March and the end of April 2020 in the general population of Indonesia, beginning with the North Sumatra region, where the spread of COVID-19 in Indonesia began. Questionnaires were randomly distributed online in the red zone in Indonesia. Data were collected by collecting people’s responses to the questionnaire, which were distributed via WhatsApp (WA) application and were competed independently by the participants. A descriptive analysis was conducted to describe the demographic characteristics, knowledge, and attitudes of the general population. A total of 201 people had good knowledge (98%) and a positive attitude (96%) regarding the COVID-19 pandemic. The respondents had a negative attitude in relation to two aspects of the COVID-19 outbreak: having to always maintain a distance of 1.5 m when in crowds, and not being able to regularly exercise or eat nutritious food (78.6% and 79.1%, respectively). Most people in Indonesia have good knowledge and a positive attitude regarding the COVID-19 pandemic. However, negative attitudes were still found in this study, and as a result, transmission prevention measures cannot reach their maximum effectiveness by simply publicizing the increase in day-to-day cases to the general public.
0deyspy2 Objective: To analyze the clinical characteristics of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) pneumonia and to investigate the correlation between serum inflammatory cytokines and severity of the disease. Methods: 29 patients with 2019-ncov admitted to the isolation ward of Tongji hospital affiliated to Tongji medical college of Huazhong University of Science and Technology in January 2020 were selected as the study subjects. Clinical data were collected and the general information, clinical symptoms, blood test and CT imaging characteristics were analyzed. According to the relevant diagnostic criteria, the patients were divided into three groups: mild (15 cases), severe (9 cases) and critical (5 cases). The expression levels of inflammatory cytokines and other markers in the serum of each group were detected, and the changes of these indicators of the three groups were compared and analyzed, as well as their relationship with the clinical classification of the disease. Results: (1) The main symptoms of 2019-nCoV pneumonia was fever (28/29) with or without respiratory and other systemic symptoms. Two patients died with underlying disease and co-bacterial infection, respectively. (2) The blood test of the patients showed normal or decreased white blood cell count (23/29), decreased lymphocyte count (20/29), increased hypersensitive C reactive protein (hs-CRP) (27/29), and normal procalcitonin. In most patients, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) was significantly increased (20/29), while albumin was decreased (15/29). Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total bilirubin (Tbil), serum creatinine (Scr) and other items showed no significant changes. (3) CT findings of typical cases were single or multiple patchy ground glass shadows accompanied by septal thickening. When the disease progresses, the lesion increases and the scope expands, and the ground glass shadow coexists with the solid shadow or the stripe shadow. (4) There were statistically significant differences in the expression levels of interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) and IL-6 in the serum of the three groups (P<0.05), among which the critical group was higher than the severe group and the severe group was higher than the mild group. However, there were no statistically significant differences in serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), IL-1, IL-8, IL-10, hs-CRP, lymphocyte count and LDH among the three groups (P>0.05). Conclusion: The clinical characteristics of 2019-nCoV pneumonia are similar to those of common viral pneumonia. High resolution CT is of great value in the differential diagnosis of this disease. The increased expression of IL-2R and IL-6 in serum is expected to predict the severity of the 2019-nCoV pneumonia and the prognosis of patients.
0df63jcx Disasters and crises have been part of the human experience since people started living in groups. Through the centuries, however, new hazards and risks have emerged that have added to the possibilities of new disasters and crises arising from them. Only a very small fraction of risks and hazards actually lead to a disaster or crisis, but they are usually a necessary condition for such surfacing. New types have emerged while older ones have not disappeared. The development of synthetic chemicals in the 19th century and nuclear power in the 20th century created the risk of toxic chemical disasters and crises from radioactive fallouts. Ancient disasters such as floods and earthquakes remain with us today. This chapter raises the question of whether we are at another important historical juncture with the emergence of a new distinctive class of disasters and crises not seen before.
0dfxnnjj Abstract Zika virus belongs to the Flaviridae, an extended phylogenetic family containing dengue or yellow fever, viruses whose shared main vector are Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. The virus originally came from Central African simian reservoirs and, from there, expanded rapidly across the Pacific to South America. The disease is an example of exantematic fever usually mild. Mortality is very low and mainly limited to secondary Guillain–Barré or foetal microcephaly cases. Diagnostic confirmation requires a RT-PCR in blood up to the 5th day from the onset or in urine up to the 10–14th day. Specific IgM are identifiable from the 5th symptomatic day. Clinically, a suspected case should comply with: (a) a journey to epidemic areas; (b) a clinically compatible appearance with fever and skin rash, and (c) a generally normal blood count/basic biochemistry. There is some evidence that causally relates Zika virus infection with foetal microcephaly. While waiting for definitive data, all pregnant women coming from Central or South America should be tested for Zika virus.
0dnhcboy PURPOSE Sterilization via bilateral total salpingectomy is slowly replacing partial salpingectomy, as it is believed to decrease the incidence of ovarian cancer. Our objective was to compare short-term intra and post-operative complication rates of bilateral total salpingectomy versus partial salpingectomy performed during the course of a cesarean delivery. METHODS A large series of tubal sterilizations during cesarean sections were studied in a single tertiary medical center between 1/2014 and 8/2016 before and after a policy change was made, switching from partial salpingectomy to total salpingectomy. Patients who underwent bilateral partial salpingectomy using the modified Pomeroy technique were compared with those who underwent total salpingectomy. Operative length, estimated blood loss, postpartum fever, wound infection, need for re-laparotomy, hospitalization length, and blood transfusions were compared. RESULTS During the study period, 149 women met inclusion criteria. Fifty parturients underwent bilateral total salpingectomy and 99 underwent partial salpingectomy in the course of the cesarean section. Demographic, obstetrical, and surgical characteristics were similar in both groups. Mean cesarean section duration was comparable for partial salpingectomy and total salpingectomy (a median of 35 min in both groups, P = 0.92). Complications were rare in both groups with no significant differences in rates of postpartum fever, wound infection, re-laparotomy, hospitalization length, estimated blood loss, transfusions, and readmissions within 1-month postpartum. CONCLUSION Rates of short-term complications are similar in patients undergoing bilateral partial salpingectomy and total salpingectomy during cesarean deliveries, making the latter a feasible alternative to the former.
0einpgeu Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) is a global pandemic and many have been victims of it long before Covid-19. International organizations have documented an increase in IPV reports during the current pandemic, raising awareness of the potential causes for such an increase. Reflecting on risk factors associated with IPV, and the underlying need of the perpetrators to exert control over the victims, it becomes increasingly important to understand how the current policies of social distancing, self-isolation, and lockdown can precipitate episodes of IPV. Furthermore, access to specialized services and health care can be compromised, and health care professionals face new challenges and demands imposed by the pandemic while managing IPV cases. This article begins by examining the main risk factors more commonly associated with IPV in the literature. It proceeds by reflecting on how these risk factors may be exacerbated during the Covid-19 pandemic, which can explain the increased number of reports. Finally, it emphasizes the new challenges faced by health care professionals, while assisting IPV victims during the pandemic and provides possible recommendations on actions to implement during and beyond the Covid-19 pandemic to prevent such cases.
0emfl1e5 Coronavirus disease 2019 has created unprecedented challenges for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) clinical care and research in the United States. Traditional evaluations for making an ALS diagnosis, measuring progression, and planning interventions rely on in‐person visits that may now be unsafe or impossible. Evidence‐ and experience‐based treatment options, such as multidisciplinary team care, feeding tubes, wheelchairs, home health, and hospice, have become more difficult to obtain and in some places are unavailable. In addition, the pandemic has impacted ALS clinical trials by impairing the ability to obtain measurements for trial eligibility, to monitor safety and efficacy outcomes, and to dispense study drug, as these also often rely on in‐person visits. We review opportunities for overcoming some of these challenges through telemedicine and novel measurements. These can reoptimize ALS care and research in the current setting and during future events that may limit travel and face‐to‐face interactions.
0epeljaf Lassa virus (LASV) is the causative agent of Lassa Fever and is responsible for several hundred thousand infections and thousands of deaths annually in West Africa. LASV and the non-pathogenic Mopeia virus (MOPV) are both rodent-borne African arenaviruses. A live attenuated reassortant of MOPV and LASV, designated ML29, protects rodents and primates from LASV challenge and appears to be more attenuated than MOPV. To gain better insight into LASV-induced pathology and mechanism of attenuation we performed gene expression profiling in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) exposed to LASV and the vaccine candidate ML29. PBMC from healthy human subjects were exposed to either LASV or ML29. Although most PBMC are non-permissive for virus replication, they remain susceptible to signal transduction by virus particles. Total RNA was extracted and global gene expression was evaluated during the first 24 hours using high-density microarrays. Results were validated using RT-PCR, flow cytometry and ELISA. LASV and ML29 elicited differential expression of interferon-stimulated genes (ISG), as well as genes involved in apoptosis, NF-kB signaling and the coagulation pathways. These genes could eventually serve as biomarkers to predict disease outcomes. The remarkable differential expression of thrombomodulin, a key regulator of inflammation and coagulation, suggests its involvement with vascular abnormalities and mortality in Lassa fever disease.
0ey40gzw The previous epidemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) has ended. However, many questions concerning how the aetiological agent, the novel SARS coronavirus (CoV), causes illness in humans remain unanswered. The pathology of fatal cases of SARS is dominated by diffuse alveolar damage. Specific histological changes are not detected in other organs. These contrast remarkably with the clinical picture, in which there are apparent manifestations in multiple organs. Both pathogen and host factors are important in the pathogenesis of SARS. The choice of specific receptors and the unique genome of the SARS‐CoV are important elements in understanding the biology of the pathogen. For the host cells, the outcome of SARS‐CoV infection, whether there are cytopathic effects or not, depends on the cell types that are infected. At the whole‐body level, immune‐mediated damage, due to activation of cytokines and/or chemokines and, perhaps, autoimmunity, may play key roles in the clinical and pathological features of SARS. Continued research is still required to determine the pathogenetic mechanisms involved and to combat this new emerging human infectious disease. Copyright © 2006 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
0fbmelx0 This comment discusses the contribution of population movement to the spread of COVID-19, with a reference to the spread of SARS 17 years ago. We argue that the changing geography of migration, the diversification of jobs taken by migrants, the rapid growth of tourism and business trips, and the longer distance taken by people for family reunion are what make the spread of COVID-19 so differently from that of SARS. These changes in population movement are expected to continue. Hence, new strategies in disease prevention and control should be taken accordingly, which are also proposed in the comment.
0flfmh9t O presente estudo objetivou determinar a prevalência e distribuição de lesões abscedativas, identificação do agente etiológico e avaliação das lesões histológicas em caprinos e ovinos abatidos em um matadouro-frigorífico com Serviço de Inspeção Federal do estado da Bahia. Foram coletadas 153 amostras de vísceras e linfonodos com abscessos de 1.148 animais abatidos. A maior prevalência na espécie ovina foi em macho, com faixa etária de 12 meses, sendo os principais órgãos acometidos fígado (21,2%) e linfonodo pré-escapular (20,3%). Na espécie caprina, a prevalência maior foi em macho, com faixa etária de 30 meses, sendo os linfonodos retro faríngeo (25%) e pré-escapular os mais acometidos (25%). Isolou-se os seguintes micro-organismos das amostras: Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis em 33,33%, Escherichia coli (19,61%), Proteus mirabilis (9,80%), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (7,19%), Trueperella pyogenes (5,22%), Streptococcusspp. (5,22%) e Staphylococcus aureus (4,57%). As lesões macroscópicas e histológicas dos abscessos coletados não apresentaram diferenças entre micro-organismos isolados.(AU)
0flhrr5f Abstract Upper room (UR)-ultraviolet germicidal (UVGI) systems, one of several disinfection applications of UV, target airborne infectious diseases in rooms of buildings such as healthcare facilities. Previous studies have introduced many experiments showing the germicidal effect of UR-UVGI systems. In this study, a novel numerical method of estimating the germicidal effect of UR-UVGI systems for air exhaled by ward patients was introduced. The method adopts and modifies the concept of ventilation efficiency because the germicidal effect depends upon how the air containing airborne infectious particles flows and stays within UV-radiated area. A case study based on a four-patient ward showed that UV doses were correlated with the age of the air exhaled by a source patient, as expected. Moreover, the UV doses were considerably affected by the position of the UR-UVGI system. Inactivation rates of the influenza virus estimated using the UV doses, were in the range of 48–74%, and those of Mycobacterium tuberculosis were 68–90% in the breathing area of a neighboring patient. The results indicate not directly the decreased concentration of airborne infectious particles, but the possibility of inactivation caused by the UR-UVGI system, which is useful for system optimization.
0fmeu4h4 An important task during the current Covid-19 pandemic is to predict the remainder of the epidemic, both without preventive measures and with. In the current paper we address this question using a simple estimation-prediction method. The input is the observed initial doubling time and a known value of R0. The simple General epidemic model is then fitted, and time calibration to calendar time is done using the observed number of case fatalities, together with estimates of the time between infection to death and the infection fatality risk. Finally, predictions are made assuming no change of behaviour, as well as for the situation where preventive measures are put in place at one specific time-point. The overall effect of the preventive measures is assumed to be known, or else estimated from the observed increased doubling time after preventive measures are put in place. The predictions are highly sensitive to the doubling times without and with preventive measures, sensitive to R0, but less sensitive to the estimates used for time-calibration: observed number of case fatalities, typical time between infection and death, and the infection fatality risk. The method is applied to the urban area of Stockholm, and predictions show that the peak of infections appear in mid-April and infections start settling in May.
0g5scezh IMPORTANCE: Documenting Americans’ stress responses to an unprecedented pandemic and their degree of adherence to CDC guidelines is essential for mental health interventions and policy-making. OBJECTIVE: To provide the first snapshot of immediate impact of COVID-19 on Americans’ stress, coping, and guideline adherence. DESIGN: Data were collected from an online workers’ platform for survey research (Amazon’s Mechanical Turk) from April 7 to 9, 2020. The current data represents the baseline of a longitudinal study. Best practices for ensuring high-quality data were employed. PARTICIPANTS: Individuals who are 18 years of age or older, living in the USA, and English-speaking were eligible for the study. Of 1086 unique responses, 1015 completed responses are included. SETTING: Population-based. MAIN OUTCOMES: Exposure to and stressfulness of COVID-19 stressors, coping strategies, and adherence to CDC guidelines. RESULTS: The sample was 53.9% women (n = 547), with an average age of 38.9 years (SD = 13.50, range = 18–88), most of whom were White (n = 836, 82.4%), non-Hispanic (n = 929, 91.5%), and straight/heterosexual (n = 895, 88.2%); 40% were currently married (n = 407), and 21.6% (n = 219) were caregivers. About half (50.5%) endorsed having at least “mostly” enough money to meet their needs. Respondents’ locations across the USA ranged from 18.5% in the Northeast to 37.8% in the South. The most commonly experienced stressors were reading/hearing about the severity and contagiousness of COVID-19, uncertainty about length of quarantine and social distancing requirements, and changes to social and daily personal care routines. Financial concerns were rated most stressful. Younger age, female gender, and caregiver status increased risk for stressor exposure and greater degree of stressfulness. The most frequently reported strategies to manage stress were distraction, active coping, and seeking emotional social support. CDC guideline adherence was generally high, but several key social distancing and hygiene behaviors showed suboptimal adherence, particularly for men and younger adults. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Americans have high COVID-19 stress exposure and some demographic subgroups appear particularly vulnerable to stress effects. Subgroups less likely to adhere to CDC guidelines may benefit from targeted information campaigns. these findings may guide mental health interventions and inform policy-making regarding implications of specific public health measures.
0gtm5ose Mammalian reoviruses display serotype-specific patterns of tropism and disease in the murine central nervous system (CNS) attributable to polymorphisms in viral attachment protein σ1. While all reovirus serotypes use junctional adhesion molecule-A as a cellular receptor, they differ in their utilization of carbohydrate coreceptors. This observation raises the possibility that carbohydrate binding by σ1 influences reovirus pathology in the CNS. In this study, we sought to define the function of carbohydrate binding in reovirus neuropathogenesis. Newborn mice were inoculated intramuscularly with wild-type strain type 3 Dearing (T3D) and T3D-σ1R202W, a point mutant T3D derivative that does not bind sialic acid (SA). Infected mice were monitored for survival, and viral loads at the sites of primary and secondary replication were quantified. Fewer mice inoculated with the wild-type virus survived in comparison to those inoculated with the mutant virus. The wild-type virus also produced higher titers in the spinal cord and brain at late times postinoculation but lower titers in the liver in comparison to those produced by the mutant virus. In addition, the wild-type virus was more virulent and produced higher titers in the brain than the mutant following intracranial inoculation. These animal infectivity studies suggest that T3D-σ1R202W harbors a defect in neural growth. Concordantly, compared with the wild-type virus, the mutant virus displayed a decreased capacity to infect and replicate in primary cultures of cortical neurons, a property dependent on cell surface SA. These results suggest that SA binding enhances the kinetics of reovirus replication in neural tissues and highlight a functional role for sialylated glycans as reovirus coreceptors in the CNS.
0h68hrl6 Urban Norway and black rats (Rattus norvegicus and Rattus rattus) are the source of a number of pathogens responsible for significant human morbidity and mortality in cities around the world. These pathogens include zoonotic bacteria (Leptospira interrogans, Yersina pestis, Rickettsia typhi, Bartonella spp., Streptobacillus moniliformis), viruses (Seoul hantavirus), and parasites (Angiostrongylus cantonensis). A more complete understanding of the ecology of these pathogens in people and rats is critical for determining the public health risks associated with urban rats and for developing strategies to monitor and mitigate those risks. Although the ecology of rat-associated zoonoses is complex, due to the multiple ways in which rats, people, pathogens, vectors, and the environment may interact, common determinants of human disease can still be identified. This review summarizes the ecology of zoonoses associated with urban rats with a view to identifying similarities, critical differences, and avenues for further study.
0hm7twyi PURPOSE: Exome and genome sequencing (ES/GS) are performed frequently in patients with congenital anomalies, developmental delay, or intellectual disability (CA/DD/ID), but the impact of results from ES/GS on clinical management and patient outcomes is not well characterized. A systematic evidence review (SER) can support future evidence-based guideline development for use of ES/GS in this patient population. METHODS: We undertook an SER to identify primary literature from January 2007 to March 2019 describing health, clinical, reproductive, and psychosocial outcomes resulting from ES/GS in patients with CA/DD/ID. A narrative synthesis of results was performed. RESULTS: We retrieved 2654 publications for full-text review from 7178 articles. Only 167 articles met our inclusion criteria, and these were primarily case reports or small case series of fewer than 20 patients. The most frequently reported outcomes from ES/GS were changes to clinical management or reproductive decision-making. Two studies reported on the reduction of mortality or morbidity or impact on quality of life following ES/GS. CONCLUSION: There is evidence that ES/GS for patients with CA/DD/ID informs clinical and reproductive decision-making, which could lead to improved outcomes for patients and their family members. Further research is needed to generate evidence regarding health outcomes to inform robust guidelines regarding ES/GS in the care of patients with CA/DD/ID.
0hv0pxfx PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The novel coronavirus-2019 disease (COVID-19) pandemic has had devastating consequences on healthcare systems globally. The effect this has on urologists and the patients they care for is not fully understood and presents the challenge of prioritizing the most urgent cases. We aim to review the impact on urology services and evaluate strategies to minimize disruption. RECENT FINDINGS: Various healthcare systems have been forced to postpone treatment for many urological conditions as resources are dedicated to the treatment of COVID-19. Training has been postponed as staff are reallocated to areas of need. Face-to-face contact is largely minimized and innovative, virtual communication methods are used in the outpatient setting and multidisciplinary team meetings. Surgical practice is changing because of the risks posed by COVID-19 and procedures can be prioritized in a nonurgent, low priority, high priority or emergency category. SUMMARY: Although the COVID-19 pandemic will inevitably affect urological services, steps can be taken to mitigate the impact and prioritize the patients most in need of urgent care. Similarly, in future; simulation, e-learning and webinars will allow interaction to share, discuss and debate focused training and education.
0i5zlvgn Abstract A 34-year-old man without any significant medical history or comorbidities, suddenly developed fever, and shortness of breath, thereby admitted to the emergency department of a tertiary care hospital, Dhaka, Bangladesh. He had neither a history of traveling to Coronavirus disease (COVID) prone areas nor a direct contact of COVID positive patients. His chest X-ray revealed ground-glass opacity in the right middle and lower zone of the lung. The first polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test on throat and nasal swabs for the COVID upon admission was negative. Based on the chest X-ray result, RT-PCR was done again resulted positive. The patient was primarily treated with chloroquine and azithromycin. On full recovery, he was discharged from the hospital on day 12, after two subsequent throat swab samples tested negative by PCR (24 hours apart). He was encouraged to maintain home quarantine for at least the next 14 days. SARS-CoV-2 RNA by swab remained negative and the blood sample shows the presence of antibody (both IgM and IgG) in his follow-up visit (after 7 days of hospital discharge).
0ie6tkgm For COVID-19 the Infection Fatality Rate or IFR - a crucial variable in epidemiological modeling - is difficult to estimate because many cases are asymptomatic and the overall infection rate is generally not known. Circumstances in the Italian provinces of Milano, Bergamo, Brescia, and Lodi allow estimation of lower bounds for age- and sex-specific all-cause excess mortality (a proxy for IFR) since anecdotal reports indicate some towns were close to fully infected. Using data from ISTAT on mortality from January 1 through April 15 for 2020 and the three preceding years, I estimate excess mortality by sex and age categories (0-14, 15-54, 55-64, 65-74, and 75+ years) while controlling for town-specific mortality that proxies for town-specific infection rate. The 99th percentile from the tail of the town distribution gives a lower-bound estimate for COVID-19 mortality. The overall population-weighted mortality at the 99th percentile is 1.09 percent (95% CI 1.06-1.14). The age- and sex-specific rates vary considerably: for men age 65-74 the estimate is 2.10 percent (95% CI 1.94-2.28) which is 3.5-times higher than men 55-64 and 2.7-times higher than women 65-74.
0ifsyct7 OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical profiles and risk factors for critical illness in hospitalized children and adolescents with COVID-19. STUDY DESIGN: Children 1 month to 21 years with COVID-19 from a single tertiary care children’s hospital between March 15-April 13, 2020 were included. Demographic and clinical data were collected. RESULTS: 67 children tested positive for COVID-19; 21 (31.3%) were managed as outpatients. Of 46 admitted patients, 33 (72%) were admitted to the general pediatric medical unit and 13 (28%) to the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). Obesity and asthma were highly prevalent but not significantly associated with PICU admission (p=0.99). Admission to the PICU was significantly associated with higher C-reactive protein, procalcitonin, and pro-B type natriuretic peptide levels and platelet counts (p<0.05 for all). Patients in the PICU were more likely to require high-flow nasal cannula (p=0.0001) and were more likely to have received Remdesivir through compassionate release (p<0.05). Severe sepsis and septic shock syndromes were observed in 7 (53.8%) PICU patients. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) was observed in 10 (77%) PICU patients, 6 of whom (46.2%) required invasive mechanical ventilation for a median of 9 days. Of the 13 patients in the PICU, 8 (61.5%) were discharged home, and 4 (30.7%) patients remain hospitalized on ventilatory support at day 14. One patient died after withdrawal of life-sustaining therapy because of metastatic cancer. CONCLUSIONS: We describe a higher than previously recognized rate of severe disease requiring PICU admission in pediatric patients admitted to the hospital with COVID-19.
0ig0ddxr PURPOSE To examine patient outcomes following the use of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon (DCB) in patients undergoing endovascular intervention in below-the-knee (BTK) arteries. METHODS A retrospective chart review identified 248 patients who were treated for symptomatic peripheral artery disease with the Lutonix DCB between May 2013 and October 2014. Forty patients were lost to follow-up, leaving 208 patients (mean age 74.1±9.7 years; 138 men) with evaluable data for outcome analysis. The patient cohort suffered from either severe claudication (38.6%) or critical limb ischemia (CLI; 61.4%) in 220 limbs. Almost two-thirds (140, 63.6%) of the 220 target lesions were total occlusions, and 37 (17.8%) of all patients had occlusion of all 3 BTK vessels before intervention. RESULTS Over a median 9-month follow-up, target lesion revascularization occurred in 15.9% of patients with an average time to first reintervention of 8 months. In total, 39 amputations were performed in 31 limbs. However, 17 of these amputations were preplanned minor amputations below the ankle; only 9 (4.1%) major amputations occurred corresponding to 6.6% of the CLI cohort. Freedom from the composite of death or major amputation was estimated as 92% and 85% at 6 and 12 months, respectively, by Kaplan-Meier analysis. In the full cohort, improvement of at least 1 Rutherford category was seen in 130 (59.1%) limbs after 1 year or at the last follow-up, with 104 (80.0%) of those limbs showing an improvement of ≥2 categories. CONCLUSION From this single-center experience, the Lutonix DCB shows therapeutic promise in a disease state where new treatment options are needed.
0igs2juy Background Children and adults with asthma and impaired lung function have been reported to have low-grade systemic inflammation, but it is unknown whether this inflammation starts before symptoms and in particular whether low-grade inflammation is present in asymptomatic neonates with reduced lung function. Objective We sought to investigate the possible association between neonatal lung function and biomarkers of systemic inflammation. Methods Plasma levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, and CXCL8 (IL-8) were measured at age 6 months in 300 children of the Copenhagen Prospective Study on Asthma in Childhood2000 birth cohort who had completed neonatal lung function testing at age 4 weeks. Associations between neonatal lung function indices and inflammatory biomarkers were investigated by conventional statistics and unsupervised principal component analysis. Results The neonatal forced expiratory volume at 0.5 seconds was inversely associated with hs-CRP (β-coefficient, −0.12; 95% CI, −0.21 to −0.04; P < .01) and IL-6 (β-coefficient, −0.10; 95% CI, −0.18 to −0.01; P = .03) levels. The multivariate principal component analysis approach, including hs-CRP, IL-6, TNF-α, and CXCL8, confirmed a uniform upregulated inflammatory profile in children with reduced forced expiratory volume at 0.5 seconds (P = .02). Adjusting for body mass index at birth, maternal smoking, older children in the home, neonatal bacterial airway colonization, infections 14 days before, and asthmatic symptoms, as well as virus-induced wheezing, at any time before biomarker assessment at age 6 months did not affect the associations. Conclusion Diminished neonatal lung function is associated with upregulated systemic inflammatory markers, such as hs-CRP.
0ih2xvyb The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on March 26 approved an additional 10 state Medicaid waiver requests under Section 1135 of the Social Security Act (Act), bringing the total number of approved Section 1135 waivers for states to 23. The waivers were approved within days of states' submitting them, and offer states new flexibilities to focus their resources on combatting the outbreak and providing the best possible care to Medicaid beneficiaries in their states. The waivers were approved within days of states' submitting them, and offer states new flexibilities to focus their resources on combatting the outbreak and providing the best possible care to Medicaid beneficiaries in their states. These waivers support President Trump's commitment to a COVID‐19 response that is locally executed, state managed and federally supported. In addition, keeping with its commitment to ensure states have the necessary tools to respond to the COVID‐19 pandemic, CMS also approved one additional Appendix K Amendments requests to existing Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) waivers under Section 1915 (c) of the Social Security Act (Act), bringing the total to six approved waivers to date. Appendix K is a tool states may use to temporarily modify approved HCBS Waivers during emergency situations.
0j1p7gzc In the era of technological advances and innovations in transportation technologies, application of driving simulators for the investigation and assessment of the driving process provides a safe and suitable testing environment. Although driving simulators are crucial for further improvements in transportation, it is important to resolve one of their main disadvantages-simulator sickness. Therefore, suitable methods for the assessment of simulator sickness are required. The main aim of this paper was to present a non-invasive method for assessing simulator sickness by recording gastric myoelectrical activity-electrogastrography. Open-source hardware for electrogastrography together with recordings obtained in 13 healthy volunteers is presented, and the main aspects of signal processing for artifact cancellation and feature extraction were discussed. Based on the obtained results, it was concluded that slow-wave electrical gastric activity can be recorded during driving simulation by following adequate recommendations and that proposed features could be beneficial in describing non-ordinary electrogastrography signals.
0j3nuvjo Background/Aims Infectious agents have long been suspected of playing a role in the initiation of Crohn's disease. The objective of this study was to search for likely microbial agents in diseased tissues using immunocytochemical techniques. Methods Intestines and mesenteric lymph node specimens of 21 patients from two French families with a high frequency of Crohn's disease and from Connecticut were studied. The microbial agents searched for included Bacteroides vulgatus, Borrelia burgdorferi, Escherichia coil, Listeria monocytogenes, Streptococcus spp., bovine viral diarrhea virus, influenza A virus, measles virus, parainfluenza virus, and respiratory syncytial virus. Results Seventy-five percent of the patients with Crohn's disease (12 of 16) were positively labeled with the antibody to Listeria. Macrophages and giant cells immunolabeled for this antigen were distributed underneath ulcers, along fissures, around abscesses, within the lamina propria, in granulomas, and in the germinal centers of mesenteric lymph nodes. In addition, 57% (12 of 21) of the cases contained the E. coli antigen, and 44% (7 of 16) contained the streptococcal antigen. The immunolabeling for the latter two agents also occurred within macrophages and giant cells, distributed in a pattern similar to that of Listeria antigen. Conclusions The results suggest that Listeria spp., E. coli, and streptococci, but not measles virus, play a role in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease.
0jo8bs6e There is no vaccine or specific antiviral treatment for COVID-19. One current focus is drug repurposing research, but those drugs have limited therapeutic efficacies and known adverse effects. The pathology of COVID-19 is essentially unknown. It is therefore challenging to discover a successful treatment to be approved for clinical use. This paper addresses several key biological processes of reactive oxygen, halogen and nitrogen species (ROS, RHS and RNS) that play crucial physiological roles in organisms from plants to humans. These include why superoxide dismutases, the enzymes to catalyze the formation of H2O2, are required for protecting ROS-induced injury in cell metabolism, why the amount of ROS/RNS produced by ionizing radiation at clinically relevant doses is ~1000 fold lower than the endogenous ROS/RNS level routinely produced in the cell and why a low level of endogenous RHS plays a crucial role in phagocytosis for immune defense. Herein we propose a plausible amplification mechanism in immune defense: ozone-depleting-like halogen cyclic reactions enhancing RHS effects are responsible for all the mentioned physiological functions, which are activated by H2O2 and deactivated by NO signaling molecule. Our results show that the reaction cycles can be repeated thousands of times and amplify the RHS pathogen-killing (defense) effects by 100,000 fold in phagocytosis, resembling the cyclic ozone-depleting reactions in the stratosphere. It is unraveled that H2O2 is a required protective signaling molecule (angel) in the defense system for human health and its dysfunction can cause many diseases or conditions such as autoimmune disorders, aging and cancer. We also identify a class of potent drugs for effective treatment of invading pathogens such as HIV and SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19), cancer and other diseases, and provide a molecular mechanism of action of the drugs or candidates.
0jsc81sy Streptococci may colonize the epithelium in the airways and other entry sites. While local infection often remains asymptomatic, severe or even fatal diseases occur when streptococci become invasive and spread to different sites in the infected host. We have established porcine respiratory air-liquid interface cultures (ALI) from the porcine lung to analyze the interaction of streptococci with their primary target cells. As representative of the streptococcal family we chose Streptococcus suis (S. suis) that is not only a major swine respiratory pathogen but can also infect humans. Suilysin, a cholesterol-dependent cytolysin (CDC), is an important virulence factor. By comparing a S. suis wt strain with a suilysin-deficient mutant, we demonstrate that suilysin contributes to (i) adherence to airway cells (ii) loss of ciliated cells (iii) apoptosis, and (iv) invasion. Furthermore, we show that cytolytic activity of suilysin is crucial for these effects. A striking result of our analysis was the high efficiency of S. suis-induced apoptosis and invasion upon infection under ALI conditions. These properties have been reported to be less efficient when analyzed with immortalized cells. We hypothesize that soluble effectors such as suilysin are present at higher concentrations in cells kept at ALI conditions and thus more effective. These results should be relevant also for infection of the respiratory tract by other respiratory pathogens.
0jtfc271 Rodents and bats are now widely recognised as important sources of zoonotic virus infections in other mammals, including humans. Numerous surveys have expanded our knowledge of diverse viruses in a range of rodent and bat species, including their origins, evolution, and range of hosts. In this study of pegivirus and human hepatitis-related viruses, liver and serum samples from Vietnamese rodents and bats were examined by PCR and sequencing. Nucleic acids homologous to human hepatitis B, C, E viruses were detected in liver samples of 2 (1.3%) of 157 bats, 38 (8.1%), and 14 (3%) of 470 rodents, respectively. Hepacivirus-like viruses were frequently detected (42.7%) in the bamboo rat, Rhizomys pruinosus, while pegivirus RNA was only evident in 2 (0.3%) of 638 rodent serum samples. Complete or near-complete genome sequences of HBV, HEV and pegivirus homologues closely resembled those previously reported from rodents and bats. However, complete coding region sequences of the rodent hepacivirus-like viruses substantially diverged from all of the currently classified variants and potentially represent a new species in the Hepacivirus genus. Of the viruses identified, their routes of transmission and potential to establish zoonoses remain to be determined.
0kkixvvq Interferon-α (IFN-α) resists viral infections by triggering the transcription of a diverse range of antiviral IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs). However, information about the Indian peafowl (Pavo cristatus) IFN-α (PcIFN-α) has not been reported. In this study, a PcIFN-α gene was amplified, which encoded a protein of 193 amino acids with a 26-amino acid signal peptide sharing 72.16-95.70% identity with other avians in Aves. After expression in prokaryote, PcIFN-α was analyzed for its physicochemical property and antiviral activity. Intriguingly, compared with chicken IFN-α, an effective viral infection therapeutic agent, PcIFN-α showed superior anti-VSV, NDV, and AIV activities, which were then abrogated by rabbit anti-PcIFN-α antibodies in vitro. Moreover, PcIFN-α was shown to be highly sensitive to trypsin; however, it remained stable despite changes in pH and temperature. Additionally, PcIFN-α induced the transcriptional or translational levels of Mx1 and ISG12 genes time-dependently. Overall, the present study revealed that PcIFN-α is a potential novel effective therapeutic agent in antiviral defense responses in peafowl, improving understanding of its involvement in bird antiviral defense.
0kss5r7u Abstract Background A novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in Wuhan has caused an outbreak and become a major public health issue in China and great concern from international community. Myocarditis and myocardial injury were suspected and may even be considered as one of the leading causes for death of COVID-19 patients. Therefore, we focused on the condition of the heart, and sought to provide firsthand evidence for whether myocarditis and myocardial injury were caused by COVID-19. Methods We enrolled patients with confirmed diagnosis of COVID-19 retrospectively and collected heart-related clinical data, mainly including cardiac imaging findings, laboratory results and clinical outcomes. Serial tests of cardiac markers were traced for the analysis of potential myocardial injury/myocarditis. Results 112 COVID-19 patients were enrolled in our study. There was evidence of myocardial injury in COVID-19 patients and 14 (12.5%) patients had presented abnormalities similar to myocarditis. Most of patients had normal levels of troponin at admission, that in 42 (37.5%) patients increased during hospitalization, especially in those that died. Troponin levels were significantly increased in the week preceding the death. 15 (13.4%) patients have presented signs of pulmonary hypertension. Typical signs of myocarditis were absent on echocardiography and electrocardiogram. Conclusions The clinical evidence in our study suggested that myocardial injury is more likely related to systemic consequences rather than direct damage by the 2019 novel coronavirus. The elevation in cardiac markers was probably due to secondary and systemic consequences and can be considered as the warning sign for recent adverse clinical outcomes of the patients.
0l0h1llp Abstract To determine if individuals with allergic rhinitis are hyperresponsive to upper respiratory tract viral infections, 20 allergic and 18 nonallergic, susceptible, adult volunteers were challenged and infected with rhinovirus type 39 before the pollen seasons. Before challenge and on each of 6 days of cloister, all volunteers were interviewed for symptoms and completed a test battery consisting of evaluations of secretion production by weighed tissues, nasal patency by active posterior rhinomanometry, nasal clearance by the dyed saccharin technique, pulmonary function by spirometry, eustachian tube function by sonotubometry, and middle ear status by tympanometry. The symptomatology and pathophysiology resulting from the rhinovirus infection were consistent with those reported in previous studies with this challenge system. Between-group comparisons revealed no differences in symptom presentation, nasal secretion production, or overall pathophysiologic response. However, for decreased mucociliary clearance rate, increased nasal congestion, eustachian tube dysfunction, and symptoms of sneezing, the allergic group demonstrated an earlier onset compared with that of the nonallergic group. The biologic significance of the differences in onset of dysfunction is tempered by the observation that the temporal pattern of responses in the allergic group was similar with that of nonallergic subjects in previous studies. The results of the present study do not support the hypothesis of a physiologic hyperresponsiveness to rhinovirus type 39 infection in allergic subjects during nonallergy seasons.
0l8qv2mm It is well-known that the “Unsorted Database” quantum algorithm by Grover gives quadratic speedup to several important combinatorial and enumerative problems, such as: SAT, Graph Coloring, Maximum Cliques, Travelling Salesman and many others. Recently, quantum programming languages such as Quipper start to be used to design, verify and simulate practical quantum algorithms for important problems in Quantum Machine Learning. So far, however, no methodologies have been created to program Grover Oracles for particular classes of problems. In contrast, such methodologies have been already created for classical Constraint Satisfaction Problems. The goal of this invited talk is to show results of some initial research towards creating systematic methodologies to program quantum computers that solve search problems in Artificial Intelligence, Logic Design and Machine Learning. Our methods are based on unified oracle blocks for such problem representations as set partition algebra, cube calculus and optimal mappings. For instance, several important problems in CAD and Machine Learning can be solved using only two basic operations on set partitions; Π(1) ≤ Π(2) and Π(1) · Π(2). Moreover, building oracles is the fundamental concept in the new approach to solve CSP proposed here and based on Invertible Logic introduced recently by Supriyo Datta and his team.
0lgup7yj Abstract Swine diseases and disorders that are significant in modern, commercial swine production systems are organized by body system; the reader will need to know basic anatomy and physiology. The industry significance, etiology, epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical signs, postmortem and histpathologic lesions, diagnostic testing, and generic treatment, control, and prevention are described. Diseases of a particular system are summarized in a differential diagnosis table.
0m71265v The great economic crisis in 2008 has affected the welfare of the population in countries such as Italy. Although there is abundant literature on the impact of the crisis on physical health, very few studies have focused on the causal implications for mental health and health care. This paper, therefore, investigates the impact of the recent economic crisis on hospital admissions for severe mental disorder at small geographic levels in Italy and assesses whether there are heterogeneous effects across areas with distinct levels of income. We exploit 9-year (2007–2015) panel data on hospital discharges, which is merged with employment and income composition at the geographic units that share similar labour market structures. Linear and dynamic panel analysis are used to identify the causal effect of rising unemployment rate on severe mental illness admissions per 100,000 residents to account for time-invariant heterogeneity. We further create discrete income levels to identify the potential socioeconomic gradients behind this effect across areas with different economic characteristics. The results show a significant impact of higher unemployment rates on admissions for severe mental disorders after controlling for relevant economic factors, and the effects are concentrated on the most economically disadvantaged areas. The results contribute to the literature of spatio-temporal variation in the broader determinants of mental health and health care utilisation and shed light on the populations that are most susceptible to the effects of the economic crisis.
0mpbau1b Inside eukaryotic cells, small RNA duplexes, called small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), activate a conserved RNA interference (RNAi) pathway which leads to specific degradation of complementary target mRNAs through base-pairing recognition. As with other viruses, studies have shown that replication of the HIV-1 in cultured cells can be targeted and inhibited by synthetic siRNAs. The relative ease of siRNA design and the versatility of RNAi to target a broad spectrum of mRNAs have led to the promise that drug discovery in the RNAi pathway could be effective against pathogens. This review discusses the current experimental principles that guide the application of RNAi against HIV and describes challenges and limitations that need to be surmounted in order for siRNAs to become practical antiviral drugs. The practical use of RNAi therapy for HIV infection will depend on overcoming several challenges, including the ability to establish long-term expression of siRNA without off-target effects and the capacity to counteract mutant escape viruses.
0mpn00gc The COVID-19 pandemic behaves like many other viruses spread through respiratory routes. This is generally a mild disease for those aged less than 50 years. A complete and prolonged lockdown will reduce COVID-19 mortality but simultaneously lead to a graver public health, social, and economic disaster. The focus has to be based on the reality that exists in an area.
0mtq52hw This paper considers the consequences of a large scale mortality shock arising from a famine or epidemic for long run economic and demographic development. The Great Irish Famine of 1845–1852 is taken as a case-study and is incorporated as an exogenous mortality shock into the type of long-run unified growth theory pioneered by Galor and Weil (1999, 2000), and modelled by Lagerlöf (2003a,b) among others. Through calibration, the impact of such a mortality shock occurring on the cusp of a country's transition from a Malthusian to a Modern Growth regime is then depicted.
0n2dd7u6 Splice-switching antisense oligonucleotides are emerging treatments for neuromuscular diseases, with several splice-switching oligonucleotides (SSOs) currently undergoing clinical trials such as for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). However, the development of systemically delivered antisense therapeutics has been hampered by poor tissue penetration and cellular uptake, including crossing of the blood–brain barrier (BBB) to reach targets in the central nervous system (CNS). For SMA application, we have investigated the ability of various BBB-crossing peptides for CNS delivery of a splice-switching phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligonucleotide (PMO) targeting survival motor neuron 2 (SMN2) exon 7 inclusion. We identified a branched derivative of the well-known ApoE (141–150) peptide, which as a PMO conjugate was capable of exon inclusion in the CNS following systemic administration, leading to an increase in the level of full-length SMN2 transcript. Treatment of newborn SMA mice with this peptide-PMO (P-PMO) conjugate resulted in a significant increase in the average lifespan and gains in weight, muscle strength, and righting reflexes. Systemic treatment of adult SMA mice with this newly identified P-PMO also resulted in small but significant increases in the levels of SMN2 pre-messenger RNA (mRNA) exon inclusion in the CNS and peripheral tissues. This work provides proof of principle for the ability to select new peptide paradigms to enhance CNS delivery and activity of a PMO SSO through use of a peptide-based delivery platform for the treatment of SMA potentially extending to other neuromuscular and neurodegenerative diseases.
0na9umzk This report describes the clinical and virological characteristics of three children in a family cluster experiencing infection with SARS-CoV2. While the youngest child was not infected, both parents and the two 2- and 5 years-old children became infected. The children were only briefly symptomatic with predominant gastrointestinal symptoms. They initially shed infectious virus from the upper respiratory tract, but cleared the virus after five to six days in the nasopharynx. However, SARS-CoV2 RNA was continuously detected in the stools of the children for more than 4 weeks indicating a predominant replication within the gastrointestinal tract.
0njm2cgh This study investigated the performance of various case definitions and influenza symptoms in a primary healthcare sentinel surveillance system. A retrospective study of the clinical and epidemiological characteristics of the cases reported by a primary healthcare sentinel surveillance network for eleven years in Catalonia was conducted. Crude and adjusted diagnostic odds ratios (aDORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of the case definitions and symptoms for all weeks and epidemic weeks were estimated. The most predictive case definition for laboratory-confirmed influenza was the World Health Organization (WHO) case definition for ILI in all weeks (aDOR 2.69; 95% CI 2.42–2.99) and epidemic weeks (aDOR 2.20; 95% CI 1.90–2.54). The symptoms that were significant positive predictors for confirmed influenza were fever, cough, myalgia, headache, malaise, and sudden onset. Fever had the highest aDOR in all weeks (4.03; 95% CI 3.38–4.80) and epidemic weeks (2.78; 95% CI 2.21–3.50). All of the case definitions assessed performed better in patients with comorbidities than in those without. The performance of symptoms varied by age groups, with fever being of high value in older people, and cough being of high value in children. In patients with comorbidities, the performance of fever was the highest (aDOR 5.45; 95% CI 3.43–8.66). No differences in the performance of the case definition or symptoms in influenza cases according to virus type were found.
0nlp928x The spread of COVID-19 is accelerating. At present, there is no specific antiviral drugs for COVID-19 outbreak. This is a multicenter retrospective cohort study of patients with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 infection pneumonia from 3 hospitals in Hubei and Guangdong province, 141 adults (aged &#8805;18 years) without ventilation were included. Combined group patients were given Arbidol and IFN-&#945;2b, monotherapy group patients inhaled IFN-&#945;2b for 10-14 days. Of 141 COVID-19 patients, baseline clinical and laboratory characteristics were similar between combined group and monotherapy group, that 30% of the patients leucocytes counts were below the normal range and 36.4% of the patients experienced lymphocytopenia. The duration of viral RNA of respiratory tract in the monotherapy group was not longer than that in the combined therapy group. There was no significant differences between two groups. The absorption of pneumonia in the combined group was faster than that in the monotherapy group. We inferred that Arbidol/IFN - 2 b therapy can be used as an effective method to improve the COVID-19 pneumonia of mild patients, although it helpless with accelerating the virus clearance. These results should be verified in a larger prospective randomized environment.
0o3mryu1 Inoculation of plasmid DNA, encoding an immunogenic protein gene of an infectious agent, stands out as a novel approach for developing new generation vaccines for prevention of infectious diseases of animals. The potential of DNA vaccines to act in presence of maternal antibodies, its stability and cost effectiveness and the non-requirement of cold chain have heightened the prospects. Even though great strides have been made in nucleic acid vaccination, still there are many areas that need further research for its wholesome practical implementation. Major areas of concern are vaccine delivery, designing of suitable vectors and cytotoxic T cell responses. Also, the induction of immune responses by DNA vaccines is inconclusive due to the lack of knowledge regarding the concentration of the protein expressed in vivo. Alternative delivery systems having higher transfection efficiency and the use of cytokines, as immunomodulators, needs to be further explored. Recently, efforts are being made to modulate and prolong the active life of dendritic cells, in order to make antigen presentation a more efficacious one. For combating diseases like acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), influenza, malaria and tuberculosis in humans; and foot and mouth disease, Aujesky’s disease, swine fever, rabies, canine distemper and brucellosis in animals, DNA vaccine clinical trials are underway. This review highlights the salient features of DNA vaccines, and measures to enhance their efficacy so as to devise an effective and novel vaccination strategy against animal diseases.
0o430xud Abstract A simple, rapid and sensitive liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC–MS/MS) method was developed and validated for simultaneous determination of six components including apigenin, quercetin, apigenin-7-O-β-d-glucoside, quercetin-3-O-β-d-glucoside, 3′-methoxyluteolin-7-O-β-d-glucoside, and tricin-7-O-β-d-glucopyranoside in rat plasma using formononetin as the internal standard (IS). The plasma samples were pretreated by a one-step liquid–liquid extraction with dichloromethane. The chromatographic separation was carried out on a ZORBAX SB-Aq column with a gradient mobile phase consisting of acetonitrile and 2mM aqueous ammonium acetate. All analytes and IS were quantitated through electrospray ionization in negative ion multiple reaction monitoring mode. The mass transitions were as follows: m/z 269.1→117.2 for apigenin, m/z 301.2→151.2 for quercetin, m/z 431.3→311.2 for apigenin-7-O-β-d-glucoside, m/z 463.2→300.2 for quercetin-3-O-β-d-glucoside, m/z 461.3→283.1 for 3′-methoxyluteolin-7-O-β-d-glucoside, m/z 491.3→313.1 for tricin-7-O-β-d-glucopyranoside, and m/z 267.2→252.2 for IS, respectively. All calibration curves exhibited good linearity with correlation coefficient (r)>0.995. The intra-day and inter-day precisions (RSD) at three QC levels were both less than 14.0% and the accuracies ranged from 89.8% to 113.8%. The extraction recoveries of six compounds ranged from 82.3% to 92.5%. The validated method was successfully applied to pharmacokinetic study of the six components in male rat plasma after oral administration of Paulownia tomentosa flower extract.
0os0if1t Chemotherapy is the preferred treatment for advanced stage gastric cancer (GC) patients, and developing chemoresistance is a tremendous challenge to efficacy of GC treatment. The treatments of anti-tumor chemo-agents recruit more tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) which are highly implicated in the chemoresistance development, but the underlying molecular mechanism is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that hypoxia-inducible factor 1&#945; (HIF1&#945;) in GC cells is activated upon 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) treatment and results in much more accumulation of M2-type TAMs which protect tumor cells from chemo-agents. Mechanistically, in the GC cells under the 5-FU treatment, reactive oxygen species is accumulated and then induces the activation of HIF1&#945; signaling to drive the expression of high-mobility group box 1, which leads to more macrophage's infiltration into GC tumor. In turn, the recruited TAMs exhibit tumor-protected M2-type phenotype and promote the chemoresistance of GC cells via producing growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) to exacerbate the fatty acid ß-oxidation in tumor cells. Blocking GDF15 using antibody or inhibiting FAO of tumor cells by etomoxir efficiently gave rise to the tumor cell sensitivity to 5-FU. Therefore, our study demonstrates a novel insight in understanding the cross talking between tumor cells and immune microenvironment and provides new therapeutic targets for clinic treatments of gastric cancer.
0otd1heg Abstract Objectives We aimed to assess the accuracy of PCR detection of viruses and bacteria on nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs (NPS) for the diagnosis of pneumonia in elderly individuals. Methods We included consecutive hospitalized elderly individuals suspected of having pneumonia. At inclusion, NPS were collected from all participants and tested by PCR for the presence of viral and bacterial respiratory pathogens (index test, defined as comprehensive molecular testing). Routine diagnostic tests (blood and sputum culture, urine antigen detection) were also performed. The reference standard was the presence of pneumonia on a low-dose CT scan as assessed by two independent expert radiologists. Results The diagnosis of pneumonia was confirmed in 127 of 199 (64%) included patients (mean age 83 years, community-acquired pneumonia in 105 (83%)). A pathogen was identified by comprehensive molecular testing in 114 patients (57%) and by routine methods in 22 (11%). Comprehensive molecular testing was positive for viruses in 62 patients (31%) and for bacteria in 73 (37%). The sensitivity and specificity were 61% (95% CI 53%–69%) and 50% (95% CI 39%–61%) for comprehensive molecular testing, and 14% (95% CI 82%–21%) and 94% (95% CI 86%–98%) for routine testing, respectively. Positive likelihood ratio was 2.55 for routine methods and 1.23 for comprehensive molecular testing. Conclusion Comprehensive molecular testing of NPS increases the number of pathogens detected compared with routine methods, but results are poorly predictive of the presence of pneumonia. Hence, comprehensive molecular testing is unlikely to impact clinical decision-making (NCT02467192). Clinical Trials Registration NCT02467192.
0ow8oo82 BACKGROUND: Bronchiolitis is the leading cause of hospitalization in infants. Biomarkers of disease severity might help in clinical management. OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical predictiveness of NW-LDH, NW-caspase 3/7, and NW-LDH/NW-caspase 3/7 ratio in bronchiolitis. METHODS: Previously healthy children less than 24 months of age with bronchiolitis were recruited from the Texas Children's emergency room and intensive care unit from October 2010 to April 2011. Demographic, clinical information, and NW samples were obtained at enrollment. NW samples were analyzed for respiratory viruses, caspase 3/7, and LDH. RESULTS: A viral pathogen was detected in 91·6% of 131 children, with the most common being respiratory syncytial virus and human rhinovirus. A single infection was found in 61·8% of subjects and co-infection in 29·8%. Children admitted to ICU had significantly higher NW-LDH than children sent home from the ER or admitted to the general floor (P = 0·02). Children infected with RSV had the highest NW-LDH concentration (P = 0·03) compared with other viral infections. NW-LDH and NW-caspase were significantly correlated (r = 0·77, P < 0·0001). The univariate models showed NW-LDH and NW-LDH/NW- caspase 3/7 ratio were directly associated with hospitalization. Mutivariate regression analyses suggested a complex interaction between the biomarkers, demographics, and disposition. CONCLUSIONS: NW-LDH, NW-caspase 3/7 and NW-LDH/NW-caspase 3/7 ratio and their interactions with demographic factors are predictive of bronchiolitis severity and can help distinguish children requiring ICU-level care from those admitted to the general floor, or discharged home from the emergency center.
0p192lmv ABSTRACT Background The COVID-19 pandemic has had a tremendous impact on the healthcare system. Due to restrictions in elective surgery and social distancing guidelines, the training curriculum for neurosurgical trainees is rapidly evolving. This evolution may have significant long-term effects on the training of neurosurgery residents. Objective To assess the impact of COVID-19 on neurosurgical training programs and residents. Methods A survey consisting of thirty-one questions assessing changes to resident clinical and educational workload and their sentiment on how these changes may affect their careers was distributed electronically to neurosurgery residents in the United States and Canada. Results The survey respondents were spread over 29 states and Canada and were relatively evenly spread across all levels of residency. Nearly 82% reported that the inpatient and outpatient volumes were either greatly (44.0%) or moderately (37.8%) reduced. Greater than 91% reported that their work responsibilities or access to the hospital had been reduced with a significant reduction in work hours and a significant increase in resident didactics (p <.001). Senior residents expressed concern about their educational experience as well as their future career prospects as a result of the pandemic. Conclusion Universally, residents have experienced reduced work hours and reduction in their operative case volumes. Programs have adapted by increasing didactic time and using electronic platforms. It is quite possible that this remarkable time period will prompt a critical re-appraisal of the pre-COVID-19 adequacy of educational content in our training programs, and that enhanced educational efforts driven by this pandemic may be lasting.
0p7cdj5v Here, we report the full coding sequence of rhinovirus C47 (RV-C47), obtained from a patient respiratory sample collected during an acute respiratory illness investigation in Butte County, California, in January 2017. This is the first whole-genome sequence of RV-C47 to be reported.
0pdmpyoz Upon recognition of specific molecular patterns on microbes, host cells trigger an innate immune response, which culminates in the production of type I interferons, proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, and restricts pathogen replication and spread within the host. At each stage of this response, there are stimulatory and inhibitory signals that regulate the magnitude, quality, and character of the response. Positive regulation promotes an antiviral state to control and eventually clear infection, whereas negative regulation dampens inflammation and prevents immune-mediated tissue damage. An overexuberant innate response can lead to cell and tissue destruction, and the development of spontaneous autoimmunity. The retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptors (RLRs), RIG-I and melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5), belong to a family of cytosolic host RNA helicases that recognize distinct nonself RNA signatures and trigger innate immune responses against several RNA viruses by signaling through the essential adaptor protein mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS). The RLR signaling pathway is tightly regulated to maximize antiviral immunity and minimize immune-mediated pathology. This review highlights contemporary findings on negative regulators of the RLR signaling pathway, with specific focus on the proteins and biological processes that directly regulate RIG-I, MDA5 and MAVS signaling function.
0pfrk5uk BACKGROUND: Over the past decade, influenza surveillance has been established in several African countries including Zambia. However, information on the on data quality and reliability of established influenza surveillance systems in Africa are limited. Such information would enable countries to assess the performance of their surveillance systems, identify shortfalls for improvement and provide evidence of data reliability for policy making and public health interventions. METHODS: We used the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines to evaluate the performance of the influenza surveillance system (ISS) in Zambia during 2011–2017 using 9 attributes: (i) data quality and completeness, (ii) timeliness, (iii) representativeness, (iv) flexibility, (v) simplicity, (vi) acceptability, (vii) stability, (viii) utility, and (ix) sustainability. Each attribute was evaluated using pre-defined indicators. For each indicator we obtained the proportion (expressed as percentage) of the outcome of interest over the total. A scale from 1 to 3 was used to provide a score for each attribute as follows: < 60% (as obtained in the calculation above) scored 1 (weak performance); 60–79% scored 2 (moderate performance); ≥80% scored 3 (good performance). An overall score for each attribute and the ISS was obtained by averaging the scores of all evaluated attributes. RESULTS: The overall mean score for the ISS in Zambia was 2.6. Key strengths of the system were the quality of data generated (score: 2.9), its flexibility (score: 3.0) especially to monitor viral pathogens other than influenza viruses, its simplicity (score: 2.8), acceptability (score: 3.0) and stability (score: 2.6) over the review period and its relatively low cost ($310,000 per annum). Identified weaknesses related mainly to geographic representativeness (score: 2.0), timeliness (score: 2.5), especially in shipment of samples from remote sites, and sustainability (score: 1.0) in the absence of external funds. CONCLUSIONS: The system performed moderately well in our evaluation. Key improvements would include improvements in the timeliness of samples shipments and geographical coverage. However, these improvements would result in increased cost and logistical complexity. The ISSS in Zambia is largely reliant on external funds and the acceptability of maintaining the surveillance system through national funds would require evaluation.
0phtilhi BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is an emerging coronavirus that has resulted in nearly 1,000,000 laboratory-confirmed cases including over 50,000 deaths. Although SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV share a number of common clinical manifestations, SARS-CoV-2 appears to be highly efficient in person-to-person transmission and frequently cause asymptomatic infections. However, the underlying mechanism that confers these viral characteristics on high transmissibility and asymptomatic infection remain incompletely understood. METHODS: We comprehensively investigated the replication, cell tropism, and immune activation profile of SARS-CoV-2 infection in human lung tissues with SARS-CoV included as a comparison. RESULTS: SARS-CoV-2 infected and replicated in human lung tissues more efficiently than that of SARS-CoV. Within the 48-hour interval, SARS-CoV-2 generated 3.20 folds more infectious virus particles than that of SARS-CoV from the infected lung tissues (P<0.024). SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV were similar in cell tropism, with both targeting types I and II pneumocytes, and alveolar macrophages. Importantly, despite the more efficient virus replication, SARS-CoV-2 did not significantly induce types I, II, or III interferons in the infected human lung tissues. In addition, while SARS-CoV infection upregulated the expression of 11 out of 13 (84.62%) representative pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines, SARS-CoV-2 infection only upregulated 5 of these 13 (38.46%) key inflammatory mediators despite replicating more efficiently. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provided the first quantitative data on the comparative replication capacity and immune activation profile of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV infection in human lung tissues. Our results provided important insights on the pathogenesis, high transmissibility, and asymptomatic infection of SARS-CoV-2.
0pk8e2jf Emerging infectious diseases represent a grave threat to animal and human populations in terms of their impact on global health, agriculture and the economy. Vaccines developed for emerging infections in animals can protect animal health and prevent transmission of zoonotic diseases to humans. Examples in this paper illustrate how industry and public health can collaborate to develop a vaccine to prevent an emerging disease in horses (West Nile virus vaccine), how poultry vaccination can protect animals and prevent transmission to people (avian influenza vaccine), how regulatory changes can pave the way for vaccines that will control the carrier state in animals and thus prevent infection in humans (Bartonella henselae vaccine in cats) and how novel technologies could be applied to vaccinate wildlife reservoir species for rabies. Stemming from the realisation that zoonotic diseases are the predominant source of human emerging infectious diseases, it behoves academic, public health, and animal health agencies to consider creative constructive approaches to combat serious public health challenges. Vaccination of vector/reservoir species, when efficacious vaccines are available, offers significant advantages to combating zoonotic human disease.
0plt9dhh BACKGROUND: During the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic, many countries have instituted population-wide measures for social distancing. The requirement of patients on dialysis for regular treatment in settings typically not conducive to social distancing may increase their vulnerability to COVID-19. METHODS: Over a 6-week period, we recorded new COVID-19 infections and outcomes for all adult patients receiving dialysis in a large dialysis center. Rapidly introduced control measures included a two-stage routine screening process at dialysis entry (temperature and symptom check, with possible cases segregated within the unit and tested for SARS-CoV-2), isolated dialysis in a separate unit for patients with infection, and universal precautions that included masks for dialysis nursing staff. RESULTS: Of 1530 patients (median age 66 years; 58.2% men) receiving dialysis, 300 (19.6%) developed COVID-19 infection, creating a large demand for isolated outpatient dialysis and inpatient beds. An analysis that included 1219 patients attending satellite dialysis clinics found that older age was a risk factor for infection. COVID-19 infection was substantially more likely to occur among patients on in-center dialysis compared with those dialyzing at home. We observed clustering in specific units and on specific shifts, with possible implications for aspects of service design, and high rates of nursing staff illness. A predictive epidemic model estimated a reproduction number of 2.2; cumulative cases deviated favorably from the model from the fourth week, suggesting that the implemented measures controlled transmission. CONCLUSIONS: The COVID-19 epidemic affected a large proportion of patients at this dialysis center, creating service pressures exacerbated by nursing staff illness. Details of the control strategy and characteristics of this epidemic may be useful for dialysis providers and other institutions providing patient care.
0pmsfrcx Abstract Zika virus outbreaks have been explosive and unpredictable and have led to significant adverse health effects—as well as considerable public anxiety. Significant scientific work has resulted in multiple candidate vaccines that are now undergoing further clinical development, with several vaccines now in phase 2 clinical trials. In this review, we survey current vaccine efforts, preclinical and clinical results, and ethical and other concerns that directly bear on vaccine development. It is clear that the world needs safe and effective vaccines to protect against Zika virus infection. Whether such vaccines can be developed through to licensure and public availability absent significant financial investment by countries, and other barriers discussed within this article, remains uncertain.
0q6zt0ux Fibrin deposition was universal in the lungs of SARS patients and fgl2 prothrombinase gene, a novel procoagulant, was demonstrated to express highly in a clinically relevant SARS model. To investigate whether and which structural protein of SARS-CoV induced transcription of hfgl2 prothrombinase gene, three eukaryotic expression plasmids expressing nucleocapsid protein (N), membrane protein (M) and spike protein 2 (S2) of SARS-CoV were co-transfected with hfgl2 promoter luciferase-reporter plasmids and β-galactosidase plasmid in CHO cells, respectively. M, N and S2 protein of SARS-CoV were detected by western blotting and immunohistochemistry analysis. Further assays demonstrated that expression of hfgl2 gene was related with N protein, but not with M or S2 protein in THP-1 cells and Vero cells. N protein significantly induced functional procoagulant activity in comparison with control group. Luciferase assay showed that N protein of SARS-CoV could activate the transcription of hfgl2 promoter compared with the pcDNA3.1 empty vector. Site-directed mutagenesis and EMSA assay further demonstrated that transcription factor C/EBP alpha band with its cognate cis-element in hfgl2 promoter. The results showed that N protein of SARS-CoV induced hfgl2 gene transcription dependent on the transcription factor C/EBP alpha, which maybe contribute to the development of thrombosis in SARS.
0qaoam29 BACKGROUND: An epidemic of a Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) caused by a new coronavirus has spread from the Guangdong province to the rest of China and to the world, with a puzzling contagion behavior. It is important both for predicting the future of the present outbreak and for implementing effective prophylactic measures, to identify the causes of this behavior. RESULTS: In this report, we show first that the standard Susceptible-Infected-Removed (SIR) model cannot account for the patterns observed in various regions where the disease spread. We develop a model involving two superimposed epidemics to study the recent spread of the SARS in Hong Kong and in the region. We explore the situation where these epidemics may be caused either by a virus and one or several mutants that changed its tropism, or by two unrelated viruses. This has important consequences for the future: the innocuous epidemic might still be there and generate, from time to time, variants that would have properties similar to those of SARS. CONCLUSION: We find that, in order to reconcile the existing data and the spread of the disease, it is convenient to suggest that a first milder outbreak protected against the SARS. Regions that had not seen the first epidemic, or that were affected simultaneously with the SARS suffered much more, with a very high percentage of persons affected. We also find regions where the data appear to be inconsistent, suggesting that they are incomplete or do not reflect an appropriate identification of SARS patients. Finally, we could, within the framework of the model, fix limits to the future development of the epidemic, allowing us to identify landmarks that may be useful to set up a monitoring system to follow the evolution of the epidemic. The model also suggests that there might exist a SARS precursor in a large reservoir, prompting for implementation of precautionary measures when the weather cools down.
0qcy07ws Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) is a highly pathogenic respiratory virus that causes morbidity and mortality in humans. After infection with SARS-CoV, the acute lung injury caused by the virus must be repaired to regain lung function. A dysregulation in this wound healing process leads to fibrosis. Many survivors of SARS-CoV infection develop pulmonary fibrosis (PF), with higher prevalence in older patients. Using mouse models of SARS-CoV pathogenesis, we have identified that the wound repair pathway, controlled by the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), is critical to recovery from SARS-CoV-induced tissue damage. In mice with constitutively active EGFR [EGFR(DSK5) mice], we find that SARS-CoV infection causes enhanced lung disease. Importantly, we show that during infection, the EGFR ligands amphiregulin and heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor (HB-EGF) are upregulated, and exogenous addition of these ligands during infection leads to enhanced lung disease and altered wound healing dynamics. Our data demonstrate a key role of EGFR in the host response to SARS-CoV and how it may be implicated in lung disease induced by other highly pathogenic respiratory viruses.IMPORTANCE PF has many causative triggers, including severe respiratory viruses such as SARS-CoV. Currently there are no treatments to prevent the onset or limit the progression of PF, and the molecular pathways underlying the development of PF are not well understood. In this study, we identified a role for the balanced control of EGFR signaling as a key factor in progression to PF. These data demonstrate that therapeutic treatment modulating EGFR activation could protect against PF development caused by severe respiratory virus infection.
0qn4yczp BACKGROUND: The influence of media coverage in online searches may hamper the role of Google Trends (GT) for Covid-19 monitoring. OBJECTIVE: To assess whether Covid-19-related GT - particularly on ageusia and anosmia - were primarily related to media coverage or with epidemic trends. METHODS: We retrieved GT data for searches on "coronavirus", "cough", "anosmia" and "ageusia", plotting them for a period of 5 years. In addition, we analysed the trends of those queries for 17 countries throughout the year of 2020, particularly concerning rises and peaks of searches. For anosmia and ageusia, we assessed whether the respective GT correlated with Covid-19 cases and deaths both throughout 2020 and specifically before March 16, 2020 (i.e., the date when the media started reporting that those symptoms could be associated with Covid-19). RESULTS: Over the last five years, peaks of "coronavirus" GT were only observed during the Winter of 2020. Rises and peaks in "coronavirus" searches were similar in time in the 17 different assessed countries, irrespectively of their epidemic situation. In 15 of these countries, rises in "anosmia" and "ageusia" GT occurred in the same week or one week after they were identified in the media as symptoms of Covid-19. Analysing data prior to March 16, 2020, anosmia/ageusia GT were found to have variable correlation with Covid-19 cases and deaths in the different countries. CONCLUSIONS: Covid-19-related GT is more related to media coverage than with epidemic trends.
0r9pj0b5 BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has overlapped with the scheduled interview periods of over 20 surgical subspecialty fellowships, including the Complex General Surgical Oncology (CGSO) fellowships in the National Resident Matching Program and the Society of Surgical Oncology's Breast Surgical Oncology fellowships. We outline the successful implementation of and processes behind a virtual interview day for CGSO fellowship recruitment after the start of the pandemic. METHODS: The virtual CGSO fellowship interview process at the University of Chicago Medicine and NorthShore University Health System was outlined and implemented. Separate voluntary, anonymous online secure feedback surveys were email distributed to interview applicants and faculty interviewers after the interview day concluded. RESULTS: Sixteen of 20 interview applicants (80.0%) and 12 of 13 faculty interviewers (92.3%) completed their respective feedback surveys. Seventy-five percent (12/16) of applicants and all faculty respondents (12/12) stated the interview process was 'very seamless' or 'seamless'. Applicants and faculty highlighted decreased cost, time savings, and increased efficiency as some of the benefits to virtual interviewing. CONCLUSIONS: Current circumstances related to the COVID-19 pandemic require fellowship programs to adapt and conduct virtual interviews. Our report describes the successful implementation of a virtual interview process. This report describes the technical steps and pitfalls of organizing such an interview and provides insights into the experience of the interviewer and interviewee.
0rl7cyqj This paper suggests that the focus on abortion legalization in the aftermath of the Zika outbreak is distracting for policy and lawmakers from what needs to be done to address the outbreak effectively. Meeting basic health needs (i.e. preventive measures), together with research and development conducive to a vaccine or treatment for the Zika virus should be priorities.
0rupk21u INTRODUCTION: Exacerbations are major contributors to morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and respiratory bacterial and viral infections are an important trigger. However, using conventional diagnostic techniques, a causative agent is not always found. Metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) allows analysis of the complete virome, but has not yet been applied in COPD exacerbations. OBJECTIVES: To study the respiratory virome in nasopharyngeal samples during COPD exacerbations using mNGS. STUDY DESIGN: 88 nasopharyngeal swabs from 63 patients from the Bergen COPD Exacerbation Study (2006–2010) were analysed by mNGS and in-house qPCR for respiratory viruses. Both DNA and RNA were sequenced simultaneously using an Illumina library preparation protocol with in-house adaptations. RESULTS: By mNGS, 24/88 samples tested positive. Sensitivity and specificity, as compared with PCR, were 96% and 98% for diagnostic targets (23/24 and 1093/1120, respectively). Additional viral pathogens detected by mNGS were herpes simplex virus type 1 and coronavirus OC43. A positive correlation was found between Cq value and mNGS viral normalized species reads (log value) (p = 0.002). Patients with viral pathogens had lower percentages of bacteriophages (p<0.001). No correlation was found between viral reads and clinical markers. CONCLUSIONS: The mNGS protocol used was highly sensitive and specific for semi-quantitative detection of respiratory viruses. Excellent negative predictive value implicates the power of mNGS to exclude any pathogenic respiratory viral infectious cause in one test, with consequences for clinical decision making. Reduced abundance of bacteriophages in COPD patients with viral pathogens implicates skewing of the virome during infection, with potential consequences for the bacterial populations, during infection.
0s7m3yjd There is disagreement between international guidelines on the level of personal protective equipment (PPE) required for chest compressions for patients with suspected COVID-19. This discrepancy centres on whether they are considered to be an aerosol-generating procedure (AGP), thus requiring airborne protection to prevent transmission to healthcare workers (HCWs). The need to don higher-level PPE has to be weighed against the resulting delay to emergency treatment.We performed a literature search on this topic which found eight relevant studies. All were observational with low patient numbers and multiple confounding factors, but describe cases of acute respiratory infection transmission during chest compressions. One systematic review concluded that chest compressions were not an AGP. Two simulated studies (released as preprints) potentially demonstrate aerosol generation. Given that there is evidence for infection transmission during chest compressions, we conclude that a precautionary approach with appropriate PPE is necessary to protect HCW from contracting a potentially fatal infection.
0s8cpa73 The coronavirus nucleocapsid (N) protein is a multifunctional viral gene product that encapsidates the RNA genome and also plays some as yet not fully defined role in viral RNA replication and/or transcription. A number of conserved negatively charged amino acids are located within domain III in the carboxy end of all coronavirus N proteins. Previous studies suggested that the negatively charged residues are involved in virus assembly by mediating interaction between the membrane (M) protein carboxy tail and nucleocapsids. To determine the importance of these negatively charged residues, a series of alanine and other charged-residue substitutions were introduced in place of those in the N gene within a mouse hepatitis coronavirus A59 infectious clone. Aspartic acid residues 440 and 441 were identified as functionally important. Viruses could not be isolated when both residues were replaced by positively charged amino acids. When either amino acid was replaced by a positively charged residue or both were changed to alanine, viruses were recovered that contained second-site changes within N, but not in the M or envelope protein. The compensatory role of the new changes was confirmed by the construction of new viruses. A few viruses were recovered that retained the D441-to-arginine change and no compensatory changes. These viruses exhibited a small-plaque phenotype and produced significantly less virus. Overall, results from our analysis of a large panel of plaque-purified recovered viruses indicate that the negatively charged residues at positions 440 and 441 are key residues that appear to be involved in virus assembly.
0sb42lxo Port site hernia (PSH) following laparoscopic procedures is a rare but serious complication. The aim of this study was to evaluate the rate of PSH after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG), and the efficacy of closure of the port site as a means of preventing PSH. A retrospective analysis was performed on 386 patients who underwent LSG between December 2009 and January 2015. 352 (91.2%) of the patient were followed up for at least 24 months. In the first 206 patients, the fascial layers of the trocar incisions were not closed, while in the next 146 cases, routine closure of the trocar sites was performed. The patients were reviewed in relation to demographics, comorbidities, complications, percentage of excess weight loss, and rates of PSH. The total cohort consisted of 220 female and 132 male patients with a mean age of 36.2 ± 12.3 years. Demographic data, initial BMI, and comorbidities were similar for the patients in both groups. The closure of the fascia was caused by the prolonged duration of the operation with no significant difference. The unclosed fascial defects were associated with a significantly increased incidence of PSH (1.3 vs. 3.9%, p < 0.05). All of the patients who experienced PSH had at least one comorbidity, and no complication was noted in the fascial closure cases. It was found that the rate of PSH after LSG is not as low as previously thought, and that routine closure of fascial defects at port sites may result in a decreased PSH rate.
0shxes1h If cross-species transplantation is ever to become a reasonable therapeutic modality for human beings, it will be because the potential for success has been demonstrated in a nonhuman primate model. The imperative has always been to select a primate research subject from a species that is plentiful, is not endangered, readily procreates in a managed environment, and mimics the human response (immunologic homology) to both organ transplantation and potential transfer of infectious disease. Several Papio subspecies of baboons, including Papio hamadryas anubis (olive baboon), meet these important criteria. These animals remain ubiquitous throughout sub-Saharan Africa and have adapted well to the managed environments of major primate centers worldwide. A list of United States-based primate centers housing breeding colonies of baboons can be found in Table 19.1. The Surgical Research Laboratory at Loma Linda University, for instance, has maintained a salutary relationship with the Southwest National Primate Research Center in San Antonio, Texas, for the procurement of juvenile baboon research subjects.
0sicx63k A qualidade higienicossanitária de verduras consumidas cruas constitui fator importante para a prevenção das doenças de origem alimentar. O objetivo dessa pesquisa foi analisar a qualidade higienicossanitária de hortaliças cruas servidas em um restaurante da Baixada Santista. Para isso, foram realizadas 30 coletas de amostras, num período de 4 meses e analisada a qualidade microbiológica e a presença de parasitas. Para avaliação de Boas Práticas em serviço de alimentação, foi aplicado um checklist e realizado o treinamento de colaboradores. Nas análises microbiológicas constatou-se que 53,3% das amostras foram consideradas impróprias para consumo para o parâmetro de coliformes a 35°C e termotolerantes e também foi constatada ausência total de Salmonella segundo a RDC nº 12 de 02/01/2001. Quanto às análises parasitológicas, 10% das amostras apresentaram resultados positivos. A partir da aplicação do checklist, os dados coletados demonstraram falta de qualidade sanitária no preparo das saladas, inadequação quanto à higiene pessoal e ambiental, e inadequação das edificações e instalações em 51,83% do checklist aplicado. O treinamento em Boas Práticas de Manipulação deve ser executado periodicamente com todos os colaboradores. Conclui-se que a falta de qualidade higienicossanitária no preparo das saladas e a inadequação das boas práticas observadas, podem comprometer a qualidade da refeição e a saúde do consumidor.(AU)
0slywdik Abstract Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused a pandemic with millions of human infections. One limitation to the evaluation of potential therapies and vaccines to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection and ameliorate disease is the lack of susceptible small animals in large numbers. Commercially available laboratory strains of mice are not readily infected by SARS-CoV-2 because of species-specific differences in their angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptors. Here, we transduced replication-defective adenoviruses encoding human ACE2 via intranasal administration into BALB/c mice and established receptor expression in lung tissues. hACE2-transduced mice were productively infected with SARS-CoV-2, and this resulted in high viral titers in the lung, lung pathology, and weight loss. Passive transfer of a neutralizing monoclonal antibody reduced viral burden in the lung and mitigated inflammation and weight loss. The development of an accessible mouse model of SARS-CoV-2 infection and pathogenesis will expedite the testing and deployment of therapeutics and vaccines.
0sny9dit For Germany it is predicted that the first wave of the corona pandemic disease reaches its maximum of new infections on April 11th, 2020 +5.4-3.4 days with 90 percent confidence. With a delay of about 7 days the maximum demand on breathing machines in hospitals occurs on April 18th, 2020 +5.4-3.4 days. The first pandemic wave ends in Germany end of May 2020. The predictions are based on the assumption of a Gaussian time evolution well justified by the central limit theorem of statistics. The width and the maximum time and thus the duration of this Gaussian distribution are determined from a statistical Ξ2-fit to the observed doubling times before March 28, 2020.
0t28p4g6 BACKGROUND: Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) was responsible for outbreaks in Canada, China, Hong Kong, Vietnam, and Singapore. SARS focused attention on the adequacy of and compliance with infection control practices in preventing airborne and droplet-spread transmission of infectious agents. METHODS: This paper presents a review of the current scientific knowledge with respect to the efficacy of personal protective equipment in preventing the transmission of respiratory infections. The effectiveness of infection control polices and procedures used in clinical practice is examined. RESULTS: Literature searches were conducted in several databases for articles published in the last 15 years that related to infection control practices, occupational health and safety issues, environmental factors, and other issues of importance in protecting workers against respiratory infections in health care settings. CONCLUSION: Failure to implement appropriate barrier precautions is responsible for most nosocomial transmissions. However, the possibility of a gradation of infectious particles generated by aerosolizing procedures suggests that traditional droplet transmission prevention measures may be inadequate in some settings. Further research is needed in this area.
0t6sw0zp The COVID-19 crisis has accelerated the adoption of telemedicine, presenting challenges and opportunities for clinicians trying to manage diverse, and not only pandemic-related, health conditions. Here, we consider some limitations of telemedicine and offer a perspective on how clinicians can adapt to working in different health-care delivery systems.
0t84eb53 Abstract Introduction Advances in molecular diagnosis have made it possible to detect previously unknown viral agents as causative agents of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI). The frequency and relevance of viral coinfections is still debatable. Objective Compare clinical presentation and severity between single virus infection and viral coinfection in children admitted for LRTI. Methods A 3-year period observational study (2012–2015) included children younger than two years admitted for LRTI. Viral identification was performed using PCR technique for 16 viruses. Clinical data and use of health resources was gathered during hospital stay using a standard collection form and we compared single virus infection and viral coinfections. Results The study included 524 samples (451 patients); 448 (85.5%) had at least one virus identified. Viral coinfections were found in 159 (35.5%). RSV and HRV were the most commonly identified virus; bronchiolitis and pneumonia the most frequent diagnosis. Patients with viral coinfections were older, attended day-care centers, had previous recurrent wheezing more frequently and were more symptomatic at admission. These patients did not have more complementary exams performed but were prescribed medications more often. Viral coinfection group did not show longer length of hospital stay and oxygen need, more need for ICU nor ventilatory support. Discussion Our study showed a significant proportion of viral coinfections in young infants admitted with LRTI and confirmed previous data showing that prescription was more frequent in inpatients with viral coinfections, without an association with worst clinical outcome.
0tcmgws2 Abstract Cryptosporidium spp. infections in neonatal dairy calves can cause diarrhoea and, in rare cases, death. The infection is usually self-limiting, but halofuginone lactate (HL) can be used prophylactically. Calves (n =144) in the study were born during a 2-month period on one farm. A total of 901 serum and 767 faecal samples were collected. Based on HL treatment, the calves were divided into 3 groups: I) not treated, II) treated incorrectly (treatment started >48h after birth, or lasted <7days), and III) treated correctly (started <48h after birth, and lasted ≥7days). Over the 3-month observation period, 14.6% (n =21) of the calves died, of which most (67%) had not been treated with HL. Correctly performed treatment of cryptosporidiosis significantly delayed the onset of oocysts shedding (P <0.001) and reduced haptoglobin (HP) and serum amyloid A (SAA) concentrations in the second week of life. HP concentration and HL treatment were negatively associated with weight gain at 3months of age. Cryptosporidium positive faecal samples were significantly (P <0.001) more likely to be diarrhoeic but Giardia or Eimeria positive samples were not. Correct prophylactic treatment with HL delayed the shedding of Cryptosporidium oocysts and improved survival, but was negatively associated with weight gain. Incorrect treatment had a low impact on mortality and resembled no treatment regarding the proportion of calves shedding oocysts. Acute phase response (APR) in the second week of life seemed to be positively associated with shedding high amounts of Cryptosporidium oocysts.
0tqwjdhd BACKGROUND: Influenza immunisation for healthcare workers is encouraged to protect their often vulnerable patients but also due to a perceived higher risk for influenza. We aimed to compare the risk of influenza infection in healthcare workers in acute hospital care with that in non-healthcare workers over the same season. METHODS: We conducted a prospective, multicentre cohort study during the 2006/07 influenza season in Berlin, Germany. Recruited participants gave serum samples before and after the season, and completed questionnaires to determine their relevant exposures and possible confounding factors. The main outcome measure was serologically confirmed influenza infection (SCII), defined as a fourfold or greater rise in haemagglutination inhibition antibody titres to a circulating strain of influenza (with post-season titre at least 1:40). Weekly mobile phone text messages were used to prompt participants to report respiratory illnesses during the influenza season. A logistic regression model was used to assess the influence of potential risk factors. RESULTS: We recruited 250 hospital healthcare workers (mean age 35.7 years) and 486 non-healthcare workers (mean age 39.2 years) from administrative centres, blood donors and colleges. Overall SCII attack rate was 10.6%. Being a healthcare worker was not a risk factor for SCII (relative risk 1.1, p = 0.70). The final multivariate model had three significant factors: living with children (odds ratio [OR] 3.7, p = 0.005), immunization (OR 0.50, p = 0.02), and - among persons living in households without children - ownership of a car (OR 3.0, p = 0.02). Living with three or more children (OR 13.8, p < 0.01) was a greater risk than living with one or two children (OR 5.3, p = 0.02). 30% of participants with SCII reported no respiratory illness. Healthcare workers were at slightly higher risk of reporting any respiratory infection than controls (adjusted OR 1.3, p = 0.04, n = 850). CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that healthcare workers in hospitals do not have a higher risk of influenza than non-healthcare workers, although their risk of any respiratory infection is slightly raised. Household contacts seem to be more important than exposure to patients. Car ownership is a surprise finding which needs further exploration. Asymptomatic infections are common, accounting for around a third of serologically confirmed infections.
0tzq35sx In view of the new viral COVID-19 pandemic, the fungal Candida auris epidemic still in progress worldwide highlights non-Candida albicans candidal infections. We describe an immunocompetent woman with a cutaneous manifestation of Candida parasilopsis fungemia, a prominent eschar which proved to be the nidus for the candidemia. We stress the value of selectively removing eschars. C. parasilopsis and C. auris are increasingly important causes of sepsis and wound infections. We emphasize that commercially available biochemical-based tests may misidentify C. auris as C. parapsilosis, and stress the added danger of C. auris to critically ill hospitalized COVID-19 patients. Any health care facility with evidence of infection or colonization with C. auris requires very close monitoring, since this fungus is comparable to SARS-CoV-2 in its infectivity, mortality, and fomite adhesiveness! Both organisms must be closely observed as nosocomial infections in health care workers, who need to follow strict CDC guidelines. During this COVID-19 pandemic, every health care facility should closely monitor for the possible deadly combination of the SARS-CoV-2 and C. auris. The identification of C. auris necessitates use of sophisticated technology not readily available to make this essential diagnosis since C. auris is multi-drug resistant and isolation precautions would become paramount.
0u0yf10p Infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) causes major losses in the poultry industry. The safe and effective vaccine to control IBV spread is imperative. In the present study, we developed IBV S1 glycoprotein poly-epitope-based DNA vaccine pV-S1B+S1T consisting of SH1208 and Holte strain BF2-restricted T cell epitopes and Australian T strain dominant B cell neutralization epitopes. Specific pathogen-free chickens were vaccinated with pV-S1B+S1T and control plasmids twice to elicit strong humoral and cellular immune response, as indicated by viral neutralization titers and results of CD8+ T cell proliferation assays. A lethal dose of IBV SH1208 strain used for protection and challenge experiments at two weeks post-booster immunization following challenge protection and virus shedding reverse transcription quantitative PCR assay, indicated that pV-S1B+S1T protected against IBV and significantly reduced viral excretion. These results demonstrated that the IBV poly-epitope-based vaccine effectively prevents infection and represents a potential IBV vaccine.
0u56hv30 Parkinson's disease, a major neurodegenerative disorder in humans whose etiology is unknown, may be associated with some environmental factors. Nocardia otitidiscaviarum (GAM-5) isolated from a patient with an actinomycetoma produced signs similar to Parkinson's disease following iv injection into NMRI mice. NMRI mice were infected intravenously with a non-lethal dose of 5 x 10(6) colony forming units of N. otitidiscaviarum (GAM-5). Fourteen days after bacterial infection, most of the 60 mice injected exhibited parkinsonian features characterized by vertical head tremor, akinesia/bradykinesia, flexed posture and postural instability. There was a peak of nocardial growth in the brain during the first 24 h followed by a decrease, so that by 14 days nocardiae could no longer be cultured. At 24 h after infection, Gram staining showed nocardiae in neurons in the substantia nigra and occasionally in the brain parenchyma in the frontal and parietal cortex. At 21 days post-infection, tyrosine hydroxylase immunolabeling showed a 58% reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra, and a 35% reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase in the ventral tegmental region. Dopamine levels were reduced from 110 +/- 32.5 to 58 +/- 16.5 ng/mg protein (47.2% reduction) in brain from infected mice exhibiting impaired movements, whereas serotonin levels were unchanged (191 +/- 44 protein in control and 175 +/- 39 ng/mg protein in injected mice). At later times, intraneuronal inclusion bodies were observed in the substantia nigra. Our observations emphasize the need for further studies of the potential association between Parkinson's disease or parkinsonism-like disease and exposure to various nocardial species.
0u592qgs BACKGROUND In attempting to overcome the challenges associated with arm contouring, arm liposuction has been an area of focus in recent years. In appropriately selected patients, circumferential liposuction is the procedure of choice. The objective of this study is to describe our experience with the four-position four-entry site circumferential arm liposuction technique. METHODS All consecutive circumferential liposuction procedures that took place at our ambulatory surgical facility from January 2015 to November 2019 were retrospectively reviewed. The four-position four-entry site circumferential arm liposuction technique is described, and photographs as well as videos are presented. RESULTS A total of 35 patients underwent circumferential bilateral arm liposuction via the four-position four-entry site technique. All patients were female, and their average age was 43 years. The average BMI was 28.4 kg/m2, and the average follow-up was 481 days. The average volume of lipoaspirate was 1,514 ml per patient, and the average volume of aspirated fat was 1,052 ml per patient. There was no incident of infection, seroma, bleeding event or venous thromboembolism. CONCLUSIONS For the right candidate, the four-entry site four-position circumferential arm liposuction is an efficient and reproducible technique, which produces predictable and pleasing results. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE IV This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .
0um24bym Aspect Based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA) is the task of identifying sentiment polarity of a text given another text segment or aspect. In ABSA, a text can have multiple sentiments depending upon each aspect. Aspect Term Sentiment Analysis (ATSA) is a subtask of ABSA, in which aspect terms are contained within the given sentence. Most of the existing approaches proposed for ATSA, incorporate aspect information through a different subnetwork thereby overlooking the advantage of aspect terms’ presence within the sentence. In this paper, we propose a model that leverages the positional information of the aspect. The proposed model introduces a decay mechanism based on position. This decay function mandates the contribution of input words for ABSA. The contribution of a word declines as farther it is positioned from the aspect terms in the sentence. The performance is measured on two standard datasets from SemEval 2014 Task 4. In comparison with recent architectures, the effectiveness of the proposed model is demonstrated.
0um50bou Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which is caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), is mainly characterized by pulmonary inflammation. The preferred imaging modality is chest computed tomography (CT) which plays an important role in early diagnosis, quarantine, and treatment as well as in the evaluation of therapeutic efficacy. We report the imaging data from a confirmed case of COVID-19 admitted to our hospital. Our aims are to improve understanding of this disease and to facilitate early diagnosis and evaluation of therapeutic efficacy. A 70-year-old woman living in the epidemic area presented with a 2-day history of intermittent fever. Chest CT revealed multiple ground glass opacities in both lungs, mainly distributed subpleurally and in the middle and lateral lung fields, particularly in the right lung, where they had partially fused into patches. Local interlobular septal thickening was also observed. Throat swabs were positive for the SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid, which confirmed the diagnosis of COVID-19. Chest CT plays a key role in the diagnosis of COVID-19, providing an accurate diagnosis and is a sensitive technique for evaluation of therapeutic efficacy. It has the advantages of promptness, convenience, and high efficiency.
0v4wvgl3 Some researchers claim that nation states have begun to conform to an internationally uniform response to infectious disease. A potential barrier to this development are the distinct systems of disease control that industrialized nation states have developed over long periods of time. I explain the divergent public policy responses of the United Kingdom and the United States to SARS, pandemic influenza and Ebola by taking a historical approach. I examine the different medical theories of disease that existed in Britain and America in the nineteenth century as each country began to develop its public health system. I also examine where in the state apparatus disease control was located in each country. In Britain disease control was historically part of the welfare sector of the state, while in the United States it was originally operated by the military. These different starting conditions helped push Britain and the United States along different paths of disease control and this helps explain why they respond to contemporary diseases in such different ways. The ‘historical durability’ national styles of disease may make it more difficult for the international community to enact a truly uniform response to pandemics.
0v5wo0ty Background. As the world grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic, there is increasing global interest in the role of serological testing for population monitoring and to inform public policy. However, limitations in serological study designs and test standards raise concerns about the validity of seroprevalence estimates and their utility in decision-making. There is now a critical window of opportunity to learn from early SARS-CoV-2 serology studies. We aimed to synthesize the results of SARS-CoV-2 serosurveillance projects from around the world and provide recommendations to improve the coordination, strategy, and methodology of future serosurveillance efforts. Methods. This was a rapid systematic review of cross-sectional and cohort studies reporting seroprevalence outcomes for SARS-CoV 2. We included completed, ongoing, and proposed serosurveys. The search included electronic databases (PubMed, MedRXIV, BioRXIV, and WHO ICTPR); five medical journals (NEJM, BMJ, JAMA, The Lancet, Annals of Internal Medicine); reports by governments, NGOs, and health systems; and media reports (Google News) from December 1, 2019 to May 1, 2020. We extracted data on study characteristics and critically appraised prevalence estimates using Joanna Briggs Institute criteria. Results. Seventy records met inclusion criteria, describing 73 studies. Of these, 23 reported prevalence estimates: eight preprints, 14 news articles, and one government report. These studies had a total sample size of 35,784 and reported 42 prevalence estimates. Seroprevalence estimates ranged from 0.4% to 59.3%. No estimates were found to have a low risk of bias (43% high risk, 21% moderate risk, 36% unclear). Fifty records reported characteristics of ongoing or proposed serosurveys. Overall, twenty countries have completed, ongoing, or proposed serosurveys. Discussion. Study design, quality, and prevalence estimates of early SARS-CoV2 serosurveys are heterogeneous, suggesting that the urgency to examine seroprevalence may have compromised methodological rigour. Based on the limitations of included studies, future serosurvey investigators and stakeholders should ensure that: i) serological tests used undergo high-quality independent evaluations that include cross-reactivity; ii) all reports of serosurvey results, including media, describe the test used, sample size, and sampling method; and iii) initiatives are coordinated to prevent test fatigue, minimize redundant efforts, and encourage better study methodology. Other. PROSPERO: CRD42020183634. No third-party funding.
0v71xwqy Viruses are obligatory intracellular parasites that require the host machinery to replicate. During their replication cycle, viral RNA intermediates can be recognized and degraded by different antiviral mechanisms that include RNA decay, RNA interference, and RNase L pathways. As a consequence of viral RNA degradation, infected cells can accumulate virus‐derived small RNAs at high levels compared to cellular molecules. These small RNAs are imprinted with molecular characteristics that reflect their origin. First, small RNAs can be used to reconstruct viral sequences and identify the virus from which they originated. Second, other molecular features of small RNAs such as size, polarity, and base preferences depend on the type of viral substrate and host mechanism of degradation. Thus, the pattern of small RNAs generated in infected cells can be used as a molecular footprint to identify and characterize viruses independent on sequence homology searches against known references. Hence, sequencing of small RNAs obtained from infected cells enables virus discovery and characterization using both sequence‐dependent strategies and novel pattern‐based approaches. Recent studies are helping unlock the full application of small RNA sequencing for virus discovery and characterization. WIREs RNA 2016, 7:824–837. doi: 10.1002/wrna.1361 1.. RNA Processing > Processing of Small RNAs; 2.. RNA Turnover and Surveillance > Turnover/Surveillance Mechanisms; 3.. RNA Methods > RNA Analyses In Vitro and In Silico.
0vbq56py OBJECTIVE To study the features of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and community acquired pneumonia (CAP). METHODS The clinical presentation, chest radiographs, white blood cell count and outcome of 45 SARS patients from April 5 to 20 2003 were compared, with those of 80 CAP patients from October 1 2002 to April 1 2003 in our hospital, and the clinical features of SARS were summarized. RESULTS (1) Fever above 38.5 centigrade, dry cough, short of breath, headache, myalgia, diarrhea in SARS were more common in SARS patients than those in CAP (P<0.01). (2) Leucopenia was more common and leukocytosis was less common in SARS than those in CAP (P<0.01). (3) 22.2 percent of SARS patients were found abnormal chest radiographs within 24 hours after onset, 71.1 percent of SARS patients were showed progressive pulmonary infiltration via serial chest radiographs, while all CAP patients had abnormal chest radiographs when they were seen first time, and no patient showed progressive pulmonary infiltration, the difference was significant between the two groups (P<0.01). (4) Patients with SARS were lack of a response to the initial antimicrobial therapy, all patients with CAP had an adequate clinical response within three days, the difference was significant between the two groups(P<0.01 ). (5) The ratio of severe pneumonia and mortality in SARS was much higher than in CAP (both P<0.01). CONCLUSION The clinical presentation, chest radiographs, white blood cell count, response to initial antimicrobial therapy, and outcome in SARS is much different from CAP, differentiate them will be helpful to early recognition, prompt isolation, and prevention of its spread.
0vfsbe49 During an ongoing pandemic of COVID-19, controlling the oropharyngeal bleeding, such as post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage, with cauterization is considered a very vulnerable procedure for medical staff because of high probability of exposure to aerosolized secretion. The authors aimed to introduce an appropriate treatment protocol for oropharyngeal bleeding that provides first aid to patients while protecting medical staff at high-risk of infection such as COVID-19.
0vlsmwfg The dependence of ascorbate uptake on external cations was studied in primary cultures of rat cerebral astrocytes. Initial rates of ascorbate uptake were diminished by lowering the external concentrations of either Ca(2+) or Na(+). The Na(+)-dependence of astroglial ascorbate uptake gave Hill coefficients of approximately 2, consistent with a Na(+)-ascorbate cotransport system having stoichiometry of 2 Na(+)∶1 ascorbate anion. Raising external K(+) concentration incrementally from 5.4 to 100 mM, so as to depolarize the plasma membrane, decreased the initial rate of ascorbate uptake, with the degree of inhibition depending on the level of K(+). The depolarizing ionophores gramicidin and nystatin slowed ascorbate uptake by astrocytes incubated in 5.4 mM K(+); whereas, the nondepolarizing ionophore valinomycin did not. Qualitatively similar results were obtained whether or not astrocytes were pretreated with dibutyryl cyclic AMP (0.25 mM for 2 weeks) to induce stellation. These data are consistent with the existence of an electrogenic Na(+)-ascorbate cotransport system through which the rate of ascorbate uptake is modulated by endogenous agents, such as K(+), that alter astroglial membrane potential.
0vxkxh1b The 3C-like peptidase of the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus (SARS-CoV) is strictly required for viral replication, thus being a potential target for the development of antiviral agents. In contrast to monomeric picornavirus 3C peptidases, SARS-CoV 3CLpro exists in equilibrium between the monomer and dimer forms in solution, and only the dimer is proteolytically active in dilute buffer solutions. In this study, the increase of SARS-CoV 3CLpro peptidase activity in presence of kosmotropic salts and crowding agents is described. The activation followed the Hofmeister series of anions, with two orders of magnitude enhancement in the presence of Na₂SO₄, whereas the crowding agents polyethylene glycol and bovine serum albumin increased the hydrolytic rate up to 3 times. Kinetic determinations of the monomer dimer dissociation constant (K(d)) indicated that activation was a result of a more active dimer, without significant changes in K(d) values. The activation was found to be independent of substrate length and was derived from both k(cat) increase and K(m) decrease. The viral peptidase activation described here could be related to the crowded intracellular environment and indicates a further fine-tuning mechanism for biological control, particularly in the microenvironment of the vesicles that are induced in host cells during positive strand RNA virus infection.
0w0hvg0s Watch a video of this article
0w5x3cxn The cover image is based on the Editorial COVID-19 and liver disease by Luca Valenti, ALESSIO AGHEMO, Al0jando Forner et al , https://doi org/10 1111/liv 14470
0wh7x410 The present pandemic of SARS-CoV-2 has been a tough task for the whole world to deal with. With the absence of specific drugs or vaccines against SARS-CoV-2, the situation is very difficult to control. Apart from the absence of specific therapies, the lack of knowledge about potential therapeutic targets and individual perception is adding to the complications. The present review describes the novel SARS-CoV-2 structure, surface proteins, asymptomatic and symptomatic transmission in addition to the genotype and phenotype of SARS-CoV-2 along with genetic strains and similarity between SARS, MERS and SARS-CoV-2. Therapeutic strategies such as inhibition of the endocytic pathway and suppressing RNA polymerase activity by metal ions, which could be quite beneficial for controlling COVID-19, are outlined. The drug repurposing for SARS-CoV-2 is discussed in detail along with therapeutic classes such as antivirals, antibiotics, and amino quinolones and their probable role in suppressing SARS-CoV-2 with reference to case studies. The ongoing clinical trials both with respect to drug repurposing and vaccines are summarized along with a brief description. The recent advancements and future perspective of ongoing research for therapy and detection of SARS-CoV-2 are provided. The review, in brief, summarizes epidemiology, therapy and the current scenario for combating SARS-CoV-2.
0wyn97y9 In a long-term (10-year) study of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as bridging therapy in patients listed for orthotopic liver transplantation (LT), we evaluated the impact of RFA on waiting list dropout rate, post-LT tumor recurrence, and long-term intention-to-treat, disease-specific survival (DSS). From March 2004 to October 2014, RFA was performed as the initial stand-alone bridge therapy to LT for 121 patients (men/women ratio, 83:38; mean age, 60.0 years) with 156 de novo HCCs (mean size, 2.4 cm). Follow-up period from initial RFA ranged from 1.3 to 128.0 months (median, 42.9 months). We assessed the overall and tumor-specific waiting list dropout rates, post-LT tumor recurrence, and 10-year post-LT and intention-to-treat survival rates. Dropout from the waiting list due to tumor progression occurred in 7.4% of patients. HCC recurrence after LT occurred in 5.6% of patients. The post-LT overall survival (OS) rate at 5 and 10 years was 75.8% and 42.2%, respectively, and the recurrence-free survival (RFS) rate was 71.1% and 39.6%, respectively. Intention-to-treat OS, RFS, and DSS rates for the entire study population at 5 and 10 years were 63.5% and 41.2%, 60.8% and 37.7%, and 89.5% and 89.5%, respectively. CONCLUSION RFA as a first-line stand-alone bridge therapy to LT achieves excellent long-term overall and tumor-specific survivals, with a low dropout rate from tumor progression despite long wait list times and a sustained low tumor recurrence rate upon post-LT follow-up of up to 10 years. (Hepatology 2017;65:1979-1990).
0x4b2f6e BACKGROUND: On 07/02/2020, French Health authorities were informed of a confirmed case of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in an Englishman infected in Singapore who had recently stayed in a chalet in the French Alps. We conducted an investigation to identify secondary cases and interrupt transmission. METHODS: We defined as a confirmed case a person linked to the chalet with a positive RT-PCR sample for SARS-CoV-2. RESULTS: The index case stayed 4 days in the chalet with 10 English tourists and a family of 5 French residents; SARS-CoV-2 was detected in 5 individuals in France, 6 in England (including the index case), and 1 in Spain (overall attack rate in the chalet: 75%). One pediatric case, with picornavirus and influenza A coinfection, visited 3 different schools while symptomatic. One case was asymptomatic, with similar viral load as that of a symptomatic case. Seven days after the first cases were diagnosed, one tertiary case was detected in a symptomatic patient with a positive endotracheal aspirate; all previous and concurrent nasopharyngeal specimens were negative. Additionally, 172 contacts were monitored, including 73 tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. CONCLUSIONS: The occurrence in this cluster of one asymptomatic case with similar viral load as a symptomatic patient, suggests transmission potential of asymptomatic individuals. The fact that an infected child did not transmit the disease despite close interactions within schools suggests potential different transmission dynamics in children. Finally, the dissociation between upper and lower respiratory tract results underscores the need for close monitoring of the clinical evolution of suspect Covid-19 cases.
0x73yqcg Emesis is a common presenting sign in small animal practice. It requires a rational approach to management that is based upon a sound understanding of pathophysiology combined with logical decision making. This review, which assesses the weight of available evidence, outlines the physiology of the vomiting reflex, causes of emesis, the consequences of emesis and the approach to clinical management of the vomiting dog. The applicability of diagnostic testing modalities and the merit of traditional approaches to management, such as dietary changes, are discussed. The role and usefulness of both traditional and novel anti‐emetic drugs is examined, including in specific circumstances such as following cytotoxic drug treatment. The review also examines areas in which common clinical practice is not necessarily supported by objective evidence and, as such, highlights questions worthy of further clinical research.
0xd6fer0 OBJECTIVE: To identify the general public’s perceptions of the overall risk communication strategy carried out by Chinese public health agencies during the first wave of avian influenza A(H7N9) outbreak in humans in 2013. METHODS: Participants were recruited from communities in Beijing, Lanzhou and Hangzhou, China in May and June 2013 by convenience sampling. Demographics and other relevant information were collected using a self-administered questionnaire. Focus group interviews were conducted using a set of nine pre-developed questions and a tested moderator guide. The interviews were audio recorded and were transcribed verbatim. The constant comparative method was used to identify trends and themes. RESULTS: A total of nine focus group interviews, with 94 participants recruited from nine communities, were conducted. Most participants received H7N9 information via television and the Internet. Most the participants appreciated the transparency and timeliness of the information released by the government. They expressed a sense of trust in the recommended public health advice and followed most of them. The participants suggested that the government release more information about clinical treatment outcomes, have more specific health recommendations that are practical to their settings and expand the use of new media channels for risk communication. CONCLUSION: The public perceived the overall risk communication strategy by the Chinese public health agencies as effective, though the moderator had a governmental agency title that might have biased the results. There is a need to expand the use of social media for risk communication in the future.
0xfp42n7 BACKGROUND Enterocutaneous fistulas often are associated with large abdominal wall wounds. Successful skin grafting of these sites is difficult, as the bed is constantly bathed by enteric contents. A method to graft these sites successfully would provide an important advance in their treatment. METHODS The medical records of patients undergoing skin grafting of a site around an enterocutaneous fistula were reviewed. The amount of fistula output at the time of grafting was recorded. The method of grafting, as well as the means of protecting the graft from enteric exposure, were noted. Skin grafts were evaluated for the extent of "take." RESULTS Seven patients met the inclusion criteria. After 1-2 weeks, the graft take was 90% in three patients, 80% in two patients, and 50% in two patients. After 1 month, there was complete epithelialization in 85% of patients, and the remaining patient had most of the site epithelialized. This healing allowed placement of an ostomy appliance in all patients. The fistula output was >400 mL per day in 70% of the patients. Multiple techniques were used to divert enteric flow away from the graft, but the most common was placement of a negative pressure dressing that concomitantly secured the graft and allowed enteric diversion. CONCLUSION The presence of a high-output enterocutaneous fistula does not preclude successful skin grafting. Such grafting can accelerate wound healing as well as improve skin and site hygiene by allowing the placement of an ostomy device.
0xymzkzn The novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), identified in China at the end of December 2019 and causing the disease COVID-19, has meanwhile led to outbreaks all over the globe, with about 571,700 confirmed cases and about 26,500 deaths as of March 28th, 2020. We present here the preliminary results of a mathematical study directed at informing on the possible application or lifting of control measures in Germany. The developed mathematical models allow to study the spread of COVID-19 among the population in Germany and to asses the impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions. The overall goal is to suggest strategies for the mitigation of the current outbreak, slowing down the spread of the virus and thus reducing the peak in daily diagnosed cases, the demand for hospitalization or intensive care units admissions, and eventually fatalities.
0xyrmk5a STUDY QUESTION Is SARS-CoV-2 receptor, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE 2) expressed in the human endometrium during the menstrual cycle, and does it participate in endometrial decidualization? SUMMARY ANSWER ACE2 protein is highly expressed in human endometrial stromal cells during the secretory phase and is essential for human endometrial stromal cell decidualization. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY ACE2 is expressed in numerous human tissues including the lungs, heart, intestine, kidneys and placenta. ACE2 is also the receptor by which SARS-CoV-2 enters human cells. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION Proliferative (n = 9) and secretory (n = 6) phase endometrium biopsies from healthy reproductive-age women and primary human endometrial stromal cells from proliferative phase endometrium were used in the study. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS ACE2 expression and localization were examined by qRT-PCR, Western blot, and immunofluorescence in both human endometrial samples and mouse uterine tissue. The effect of ACE2 knockdown on morphological and molecular changes of human endometrial stromal cell decidualization were assessed. Ovariectomized mice were treated with estrogen or progesterone to determine the effects of these hormones on ACE2 expression. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE In human tissue, ACE2 protein is expressed in both endometrial epithelial and stromal cells in the proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle, and expression increases in stromal cells in the secretory phase. The ACE2 mRNA (P < 0.0001) and protein abundance increased during primary human endometrial stromal cell (HESC) decidualization. HESCs transfected with ACE2-targeting siRNA were less able to decidualize than controls, as evidenced by a lack of morphology change and lower expression of the decidualization markers PRL and IGFBP1 (P < 0.05). In mice during pregnancy, ACE2 protein was expressed in uterine epithelial and stromal cells increased through day six of pregnancy. Finally, progesterone induced expression of Ace2 mRNA in mouse uteri more than vehicle or estrogen (P < 0.05). LARGE SCALE DATA N/A. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION Experiments assessing the function of ACE2 in human endometrial stromal cell decidualization were in vitro. Whether SARS-CoV-2 can enter human endometrial stromal cells and affect decidualization have not been assessed. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS Expression of ACE2 in the endometrium allow SARS-CoV-2 to enter endometrial epithelial and stromal cells, which could impair in vivo decidualization, embryo implantation, and placentation. If so, women with COVID-19 may be at increased risk of early pregnancy loss. STUDY FUNDINGS/COMPETING INTEREST(S) This study was supported by National Institutes of Health / National Institute of Child Health and Human Development grants R01HD065435 and R00HD080742 to RK and Washington University School of Medicine start-up funds to RK. The authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest.
0y94riuk In December 2019, some new and unexplained cases of pneumonia were found in Wuhan, Hubei province, China, and were later named as coronavirus disease 2019 by the World Health Organisation. The number of cases increased rapidly, and the virus spread continuously. Tens of thousands of medical staff throughout the country have since rushed to Wuhan to provide intensive medical treatment. Due to high levels of stress and work intensity, insufficient sleep and a lack of access to water after entering the isolation ward, staff may suffer from oral mucosal ulcers and other oral mucosal diseases. Police officers, community workers, family members in quarantine and even patients with mild coronavirus 2019, as well as those who have previously had oral mucosal disease, have also reported experiencing discomfort as a result of stress-induced oral mucosal disorders, such as recurrent aphthous ulcers, chronic cheilitis and oral lichen planus. This article will offer some suggestions for the prevention, treatment and care of the above-mentioned oral mucosal diseases during the fight against coronavirus 2019, focusing on measures to deal with the oral mucosal damage caused in response to stress.
0yg36ms1 Abstract It is not clear whether turning on the gaspers in the cabins of commercial airliners actually improves the air quality. To answer this question, this study first developed a hybrid turbulence model which was suitable for predicting the air distribution in an aircraft cabin with gaspers turned on. Next, the investigation validated the model using two sets of experimental data from a cabin mockup and an actual airplane. This study then used the validated model to systematically investigate the impact of gaspers on cabin air quality in a seven-row section of the fully-occupied, economy-class cabin of Boeing 767 and 737 airplanes. The CFD calculations formed a database consisting of 9660 data points that provide information about SARS infection risk. It was found that the distribution of opened gaspers can influence the infection risk for passengers. Even though the gasper supplies clean air, it is possible for it to have a negative impact on the passengers' health. Statistically speaking, the overall effect of turning on the gaspers on the mean infection risk for the general population was neutral.
0yhmff08 A divergent rotavirus I was detected using viral metagenomics in the feces of a cat with diarrhea. The eleven segments of rotavirus I strain Felis catus encoded non-structural and structural proteins with amino acid identities ranging from 25 to 79% to the only two currently sequenced members of that viral species both derived from canine feces. No other eukaryotic viral sequences nor bacterial and protozoan pathogens were detected in this fecal sample suggesting the involvement of rotavirus I in feline diarrhea. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11262-017-1440-4) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
0yolq3ub Importance: Filtering facepiece respirators, including N95 masks, are a critical component of infection prevention in hospitals. Due to unprecedented shortages in N95 respirators, many healthcare systems have explored reprocessing of N95 respirators. Data supporting these approaches are lacking in real hospital settings. In particular, published studies have not yet reported an evaluation of multiple viruses, bacteria, and fungi along with respirator filtration and fit in a single, full-scale study. Objective: We initiated a full-scale study to evaluate different N95 FFR decontamination strategies and their impact on respirator integrity and inactivating multiple microorganisms, with experimental conditions informed by the needs and constraints of the hospital. Methods: We explored several reprocessing methods using new 3MTM 1860 N95 respirators, including dry (<10% relative humidity) and moist (62-66% relative humidity) heat (80-82 oC) in the drying cycle of industrial instrument washers, ethylene oxide (EtO), pulsed xenon UV (UV-PX), hydrogen peroxide gas plasma (HPGP), and vaporous hydrogen peroxide (VHP). Respirator samples were treated and analyzed for biological indicator inactivation using four viruses (MS2, phi6, influenza A virus, murine hepatitis virus), three bacteria (Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Geobacillus stearothermophilus), and the fungus Aspergillus niger. The impact of different application media was also evaluated. In parallel, decontaminated respirators were evaluated for filtration integrity and fit. Results: VHP resulted in >2 log10 inactivation of all tested biological indicators. The combination of UV-PX + moist heat resulted in >2 log10 inactivation of all biological indicators except G. stearothermohphilus. Greater than 95% filtration efficiency was maintained following 2 (UV-PX + <10% relative humidity heat) or 10 (VHP) cycles of treatment, and proper fit was also preserved. UV-PX + dry heat was insufficient to inactivate all biological indicators. Although very effective at virus decontamination, HPGP resulted in decreased filtration efficiency after 3 cycles, and EtO treatment raised potential toxicity concerns. The observed inactivation of viruses with UV-PX, heat, and hydrogen peroxide treatments varied as a function of which culture media (PBS buffer or DMEM) they were deposited in. Conclusions and Relevance: High levels of biological indicator inactivation were achieved following treatment with either moist heat or VHP. These same treatments did not significantly impact mask filtration or fit. Hospitals have a variety of scalable options to safely reprocess N95 masks. Beyond value in the current Covid-19 pandemic, the broad group of microorganisms and conditions tested make these results relevant in potential future pandemic scenarios.
0yuvrrbg This study aims to bridge the digital gender divide in information and communication technology (ICT) education and field by reflecting the alumni opinions on gender equality in the ICT context. The study aims to raise the awareness of gender equality issues through the work-life reflections. This is done to understand better the gender equality issue, and to give proposals to promoting equality also for the faculty members who teach ICT related subjects in the university. The data for the study was collected from 131 (n = 131) ICT alumni that represent 25 nationalities. Results reveal that men with 77% share dominate the closest supervisor positions and 14% of the previous ICT students in the university have felt some kind of gender-based discrimination in their work. The data-driven content analysis was used to analyze the data. In the analysis we found five main categories behind the gender-based discrimination: society, organizational; individual action; hard facts and zero. We argue, that society, organizational, and individual action proposals illustrate the digital transformation process.
0zqtmhfh Cecal masses secondary to extra-luminal compression are rare. We report a case of a 72-year-old man with a cecal mass found during routine colonoscopy with multiple biopsies showing normal colonic mucosa. The patient had a relevant past surgical history of a bilateral open inguinal hernia repair using the 'Plug-and-Patch' mesh system. A computed tomography scan of the abdomen and pelvis showed a 4 × 3.3 cm mass that compressed the wall of the cecum. A neoplastic process could not be ruled out. Diagnostic laparoscopy with intraoperative colonoscopy showed that the right hernia plug was not deployed and was causing extrinsic compression of the anterior cecal wall and an intraluminal impression upon insufflation of the colon. This case report reiterates the importance of combining intraoperative colonoscopy with laparoscopy for diagnosis of undetermined colonic masses.
0zsjr9dc Medical oncologists are steering a difficult course during the COVID-19 pandemic between three opposing forces : revisiting optimal standards of cancer care, facing constantly evolving shortages as some resources are being redirected, and acknowledging the paradoxical need to keep patients away from the health care facility This article compiles recommendations fr om cancer societies and expert opinions to provide guidance and practical solutions for the oncology clinic We propose that optimal standards of care be upheld, and short-term safety concerns due to exposure to SARS-CoV-2 be weighed against a long-term compromise in cancer prognosis when deciding on adjustments in cancer care Proper mitigation strategies in the clinic and use of less resource-heavy but equivalent treatment alternatives often allow optimal cancer care The magnitude of benefit of cancer treatments needs to be systematically considered
0zzw5tja PURPOSE OF REVIEW Portal hypertensive gastropathy (PHG) and gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE) are two types of upper gastrointestinal bleeding that may present similarly, but are managed very differently. This article reviews the pathogenesis and guidelines in management of both of these conditions with emphasis on recent advances in the field. RECENT FINDINGS Off-label use of Hemospray has been shown in several case series to be useful in managing acute bleeding from PHG. Balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration presents an alternative approach for this condition. Radiofrequency ablation may be an alternative therapy to argon plasma coagulation in the endoscopic treatment of GAVE, as it consists of fewer sessions and has been shown to decrease gastrointestinal blood loss. SUMMARY The treatment options for PHG and GAVE are constantly evolving and expanding. In this review, we present the latest approaches in the gastroenterologist's arsenal to deal with these conditions.
10817qo9 Infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) is a highly contagious avian coronavirus. IBV causes substantial worldwide economic losses in the poultry industry. Vaccination with live-attenuated viral vaccines, therefore, are of critical importance. Live-attenuated viral vaccines, however, exhibit the potential for reversion to virulence and recombination with virulent field strains. Therefore, alternatives such as subunit vaccines are needed together with the identification of suitable adjuvants, as subunit vaccines are less immunogenic than live-attenuated vaccines. Several glycan-based adjuvants directly targeting mammalian C-type lectin receptors were assessed in vitro using chicken bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BM-DCs). The β-1-6-glucan, pustulan, induced an up-regulation of MHC class II (MHCII) cell surface expression, potentiated a strong proinflammatory cytokine response, and increased endocytosis in a cation-dependent manner. Ex vivo co-culture of peripheral blood monocytes from IBV-immunised chickens, and BM-DCs pulsed with pustulan-adjuvanted recombinant IBV N protein (rN), induced a strong recall response. Pustulan-adjuvanted rN induced a significantly higher CD4 +blast percentage compared to either rN, pustulan or media. However, the CD8 +and TCRγδ +blast percentage were significantly lower with pustulan-adjuvanted rN compared to pustulan or media. Thus, pustulan enhanced the efficacy of MHCII antigen presentation, but apparently not the cross-presentation on MHCI. In conclusion, we found an immunopotentiating effect of pustulan in vitro using chicken BM-DCs. Thus, future in vivo studies might show pustulan as a promising glycan-based adjuvant for use in the poultry industry to contain the spread of coronaviridiae as well as of other avian viral pathogens.
1098ey0m OBJECTIVE The determination of coma patient prognosis after cardiac arrest has clinical, ethical and social implications. Neurological examination, imaging and biochemical markers are helpful tools accepted as reliable in predicting recovery. With the advent of therapeutic hypothermia, these data need to be reconfirmed. In this study, we attempted to determine the validity of different markers, which can be used in the detection of patients with poor prognosis under hypothermia. METHODS Data from adult patients admitted to our intensive care unit for a hypothermia protocol after cardiac arrest were recorded prospectively to generate a descriptive and analytical study analyzing the relationship between clinical, neurophysiological, imaging and biochemical parameters with 6-month outcomes defined according to the Cerebral Performance Categories scale (good 1-2, poor 3-5). Neuron-specific enolase was collected at 72 hours. Imaging and neurophysiologic exams were carried out in the 24 hours after the rewarming period. RESULTS Sixty-seven patients were included in the study, of which 12 had good neurological outcomes. Ventricular fibrillation and electroencephalographic theta activity were associated with increased likelihood of survival and improved neurological outcomes. Patients who had more rapid cooling (mean time of 163 versus 312 minutes), hypoxic-ischemic brain injury on magnetic resonance imaging or neuron-specific enolase > 58ng/mL had poor neurological outcomes (p < 0.05). CONCLUSION Hypoxic-ischemic brain injury on magnetic resonance imaging and neuron-specific enolase were strong predictors of poor neurological outcomes. Although there is the belief that early achievement of target temperature improves neurological prognoses, in our study, there were increased mortality and worse neurological outcomes with earlier target-temperature achievement.
10cgmzam PURPOSE: To assess the interobserver variability between chest radiologists in the interpretation of the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) expert consensus statement reporting guidelines in patients with suspected coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia in a setting with limited reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction testing availability. METHODS: Chest computed tomography (CT) studies in 303 consecutive patients with suspected COVID-19 were reviewed by 3 fellowship-trained chest radiologists. Cases were assigned an impression of typical, indeterminate, atypical, or negative for COVID-19 pneumonia according to the RSNA expert consensus statement reporting guidelines, and interobserver analysis was performed. Objective CT features associated with COVID-19 pneumonia and distribution of findings were recorded. RESULTS: The Fleiss kappa for all observers was almost perfect for typical (0.815), atypical (0.806), and negative (0.962) COVID-19 appearances (P < .0001) and substantial (0.636) for indeterminate COVID-19 appearance (P < .0001). Using Cramer V analysis, there were very strong correlations between all radiologists' interpretations, statistically significant for all (typical, indeterminate, atypical, and negative) COVID-19 appearances (P < .001). Objective CT imaging findings were recorded in similar percentages of typical cases by all observers. CONCLUSION: The RSNA expert consensus statement on reporting chest CT findings related to COVID-19 demonstrates substantial to almost perfect interobserver agreement among chest radiologists in a relatively large cohort of patients with clinically suspected COVID-19. It therefore serves as a reliable reference framework for radiologists to accurately communicate their level of suspicion based on the presence of evidence-based objective findings.
10fuftbx The evolution of influenza is a continuing process involving viral and host factors. The increasing frequency of emergence of the highly pathogenic H5N1, H7N3 and H7N7 influenza viruses and the panzootic spread of H9N2 influenza virus, all of which can be potentially transmitted to humans, are of great concern to both veterinary and human public health officials. The question is how soon the next pandemic will emerge. A convergence of factors, including the population densities of poultry, pigs and humans, are likely factors affecting the evolution of the virus. Highly concentrated poultry and pig farming, in conjunction with traditional live animal or 'wet' markets, provide optimal conditions for increased mutation, reassortment and recombination of influenza viruses. Strategies to reduce the evolution of influenza and the emergence of pandemics include the separation of species, increased biosecurity, the development of new vaccine strategies and better basic knowledge of the virus. More effective co-operation between scientists and veterinary and public health officials is required to achieve these goals.
10qpl3ve Primary vasculitis are commonly multifactorial disorders involving environmental, genetic and immunological factors. Several immune-based effector mechanisms are implicated in the vascular wall damage. These effector mechanisms commonly imply auto-antibodies or immune complexes - mediated cytotoxicity but the contribution of a T-cell mediated immune response has also been described, particularly in large vascular vasculitis. Despite advances in understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms of vasculitis, the triggering events initiating the disease remain largely undefined in most cases. This review highlights the recent advances in the etiopathogenesis of primary vasculitis. A better understanding of the immunological aspects of these disorders may provide insight into the development of novel therapeutical strategies.
10r26vxz Simultaneous quantification of cyclosporin A (CsA) and its major metabolite (AM1) in blood has been achieved using time‐of‐flight secondary‐ion mass spectrometry (TOF‐SIMS) and matrix‐assisted laser desorption/ionization time‐of‐flight mass spectrometry (MALDI/TOF‐MS). Previous investigations indicated that spectral interferences exist in the analysis of CsA blood samples by the above methods. In TOF‐SIMS, interference is caused by overlap of the Ag‐cationized internal standard, cyclosporin D (CsD), with the Ag‐cationized metabolite, AM1. To resolve this interference and obtain quantitative information, cross‐correlation analysis was applied to the TOF‐SIMS data. Application of damped non‐linear least squares curve‐fitting was carried out to resolve an interference in the MALDI/TOF‐MS data due to multiple cationization products (i.e. Na and K). Measurement of standard samples indicates that the minimum accuracy (95% confidence level) of the TOF‐SIMS method was better than 9% for CsA and 13% for AM1 using only one standard curve'. Similarly, the minimum accuracy of the MALDI/TOF‐MS method was determined to be 14% for CsA and better than 25% for AM1. Blood samples obtained from transplant patients receiving CsA were analyzed by polyclonal fluorescence polarization immunoassay, high‐performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and by both TOF‐MS methods. Both TOF‐MS results for CsA and mono‐hydroxylated CsA are in good agreement with the HPLC results.
10xmdxzl Our aim is evaluating the changes in weight and dietary habits in a sample of outpatients with obesity after 1 month of enforced lockdown during the COVID-19 pandemic in Northern Italy. In this observational retrospective study, the patients of our Obesity Unit were invited to answer to a 12-question multiple-choice questionnaire relative to weight changes, working activity, exercise, dietary habits, and conditions potentially impacting on nutritional choices. A multivariate regression analysis was performed to evaluate the associations among weight/BMI changes and the analyzed variables. A total of 150 subjects (91.5%) completed the questionnaire. Mean self-reported weight gain was &#8776;1.5 kg (p < 0.001). Lower exercise, self-reported boredom/solitude, anxiety/depression, enhanced eating, consumption of snacks, unhealthy foods, cereals, and sweets were correlated with a significantly higher weight gain. Multiple regression analyses showed that increased education (inversely, ß = -1.15; 95%CI -2.13, -0.17, p = 0.022), self-reported anxiety/depression (ß = 1.61; 0.53, 2.69, p = 0.004), and not consuming healthy foods (ß = 1.48; 0.19, 2.77, p = 0.026) were significantly associated with increased weight gain. The estimated direct effect of self-reported anxiety/depression on weight was 2.07 kg (1.07, 3.07, p < 0.001). Individuals with obesity significantly gained weight 1 month after the beginning of the quarantine. The adverse mental burden linked to the COVID-19 pandemic was greatly associated with increased weight gain.
111p8lps Descriptions that organosulfurs could alter biologically relevant cellular functions began some 40 years ago when cell mediated and humoral murine in vitro immune responses were reported to be dramatically enhanced by any of four xenobiotic, sulfhydryl compounds—2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME), dithiothreitol, glutathione, and L-cysteine; the most effective of the four was 2-ME. These findings triggered a plethora of reports defining 2-ME benefits for a multitude of immunological processes, primarily with murine models. This led to investigations on 2-ME alterations of (a) immune functions in other species, (b) activities of other cell-types, and (c) in situ diseases. In addition, the early findings may have been instrumental in identification of the previously undefined anticarcinogenic chemicals in specific foods as organosulfurs. Outside the plant organosulfurs, there are no comprehensive reviews of these areas to help define mechanisms by which organosulfurs function as well as identify potential alternative uses. Therefore, the present review will focus on 2-ME alterations of in vitro immune functions in species other than murine; namely, fish, amphibian, reptile, avian, whales, dolphins, rat, hamster, rabbit, guinea pig, feline, canine, porcine, ovine, bovine, and human. Processes, some unique to a given species, were in general, enhanced and in some cases dependent upon the presence of 2-ME. The largest benefits occurred in media that were serum free, followed by those in autologous serum and then fetal bovine serum supplemented medium. Concentrations of 2-ME were generally in the low μM range, with exceptions of those for salamander (20 mM), turtles (70 mM) and dolphins (7 mM). The few studies designed to assess mechanisms found that changes induced by 2-ME were generally accompanied by alterations of reduced/oxidized glutathione cellular concentrations. The major benefit for most studies, however, was to increase the sensitivity of the culture environment, which permitted a specific process to be more easily dissected.
116eaiee Many patients with severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) remain unresponsive after surviving critical illness. Although several structural brain abnormalities have been described, their impact on brain function and implications for prognosis are unknown. Functional neuroimaging, which has prognostic significance, has yet to be explored in this population. Here we describe a patient with severe COVID-19 who, despite prolonged unresponsiveness and structural brain abnormalities, demonstrated intact functional network connectivity, and weeks later recovered the ability to follow commands. When prognosticating for survivors of severe COVID-19, clinicians should consider that brain networks may remain functionally intact despite structural injury and prolonged unresponsiveness.
11b97bnp In light of the evolving COVID-19 pandemic, the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) and Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) released a joint statement in March 2020 recommending an immediate suspension of medical student participation in direct patient contact. As graduating medical students who will soon begin residency, the authors fully support this recommendation. Though paid health care workers, like residents, nurses, and environmental services staff, are essential to the management of COVID-19 patients, medical students are not. Students' continued involvement in direct patient care will contribute to SARS-CoV-2 exposures and transmissions and will waste already limited personal protective equipment. By decreasing non-essential personnel in health care settings, including medical students, medical schools will contribute to national and global efforts to "flatten the curve."The authors also assert that medical schools are responsible for ensuring medical student safety. Without the protections provided to paid health care workers, students are uniquely disadvantaged within the medical hierarchy; these inequalities must be addressed before medical students are safely reintegrated into clinical roles. Although graduating medical students and institutional leadership may worry that suspending clinical rotations might prevent students from completing graduation requirements, the authors argue the ethical obligation to "flatten the curve" supersedes usual teaching responsibilities. Therefore, the authors request further guidance from the LCME and AAMC regarding curricular exemptions/alternatives and adjusted graduation timelines. The pool of graduating medical students affected by this pause in direct patient contact represents a powerful reserve, which may soon need to be utilized as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to challenge the U.S. health care infrastructure.
11halnby In the past decades, China's computational drug design and discovery research has experienced fast development through various novel methodologies. Application of these methods spans a wide range, from drug target identification to hit discovery and lead optimization. In this review, we firstly provide an overview of China's status in this field and briefly analyze the possible reasons for this rapid advancement. The methodology development is then outlined. For each selected method, a short background precedes an assessment of the method with respect to the needs of drug discovery, and, in particular, work from China is highlighted. Furthermore, several successful applications of these methods are illustrated. Finally, we conclude with a discussion of current major challenges and future directions of the field.
11rb5fdh We develop here a data-driven approach for disease recognition based on given symptoms, to be efficient tool for anomaly detection. In a clinical setting and when presented with a patient with a combination of traits, a doctor may wonder if a certain combination of symptoms may be especially predictive, such as the question,"Are fevers more informative in women than men?"The answer to this question is, yes. We develop here a methodology to enumerate such questions, to learn what are the stronger warning signs when attempting to diagnose a disease, called Conditional Predictive Informativity, (CPI), whose ranking we call CPIR. This simple to use process allows us to identify particularly informative combinations of symptoms and traits that may help medical field analysis in general, and possibly to become a new data-driven advised approach for individual medical diagnosis, as well as for broader public policy discussion. In particular we have been motivated to develop this tool in the current enviroment of the pressing world crisis due to the COVID 19 pandemic. We apply the methods here to data collected from national, provincial, and municipal health reports, as well as additional information from online, and then curated to an online publically available Github repository.
11tn89qr BACKGROUND Although eosinophilic oesophagitis (EoE) is putatively mediated by an abnormal response to food antigen, the oesophagus is considered relatively impermeable to large molecules. AIM To assess whether food antigens penetrate the oesophageal mucosa in patients with EoE. METHODS Anti-gliadin staining was performed in three groups: active EoE, inactive EoE and EoE patients on a low or gluten free diet. To appraise the specificity of our results, we also performed gliadin staining on six patients without oesophageal disease who were consuming gluten. The groups with EoE on gluten also underwent endoscopic infusion with gluten containing soy sauce and repeat biopsies during the endoscopy. We measured eosinophil density, dilated intercellular spaces (on a 0-4+ scale) and gliadin in oesophageal mucosa by immunofluorescence. RESULTS Patients with active EoE had significantly greater epithelial density of anti-gliadin staining when compared to inactive EoE (P < 0.0065) and gluten-free patients (P < 0.0008) at baseline and after soy infusion. Gliadin was not detected in non-EoE control patients. The distribution of gliadin was both cytoplasmic and nuclear. There was good correlation of dilated intercellular spaces grade and total gliadin staining intensity (r = 0.577, P = 0.0077). Acute oesophageal perfusion of a commercial gliadin-rich soy sauce did not lead to an increase in gliadin staining in active or inactive EoE. CONCLUSION These findings suggest, although do not prove, that antigen penetration in active eosinophilic oesophagitis might be facilitated by impairment of epithelial integrity.
123rw239 Use of a bilateral caudal superficial epigastric skin flap and perineal urethrostomy for reconstruction of a wound which occurred secondary to rupture of the distal urethra and extravasation of urine is reported. A 10-month-old male neutered Domestic Shorthaired cat was presented with a history of trauma, signs of pain of the hind quarters and anuria. Progression of the clinical signs, including anuria, lethargy, anorexia, and azotemia, prompted referral and investigation 108 hours following the initial injury. Retrograde urethrography indicated a rupture of the distal pelvic urethra with extravasation of urine subcutaneously. Development of extensive skin necrosis of the perineum and rump progressed leaving a large wound defect which was managed with wound debridement and dressing. The wound was closed using staged caudal superficial epigastric skin flaps and perineal urethrostomy as part of the reconstruction.
126gukag This paper documents the efforts in implementing lyric generation machine learning models in the Greek language for the genre of Éntekhno music. To accomplish this, we used three different Long Short-Term Memory Recurrent Neural Network approaches. The first method utilizes word-level bi-directional network models, the second method expands on the first by learning the word embeddings on the initial layer of the network, while the last method is based on a char-level network model. Our experimental procedure, which utilized a high sample of human judges, shows that texts of lyrics generated by our models are of high quality and are not that easily distinguishable from actual lyrics.
12a7xm7r We analysed the first 84 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) patients hospitalised in an infectious and tropical disease unit in Florence, Italy, over 30 days after the start of the COVID-19 outbreak in Italy. A 12% reduction in the rate of intensive care unit transfer was observed after the implementation of intensity care measures in the regular ward such as increasing the nurse/patient ratio, presence of critical care physicians and using high flow nasal cannulae oxygenation.
12dqij1u PURPOSE This report describes a case of a 32-year-old woman who had been diagnosed with a facial arteriovenous malformation during childhood. Because this patient possessed a major risk of perioperative hemorrhage, the use of several local hemostatic measures was thoroughly explored before routine exodontia. MATERIALS AND METHODS Selective embolization of the right superior thyroid artery was performed intraoperatively and a novel hemostatic technique using a combination of a packing of Gelfoam wrapped in Surgicel was placed within the extraction sites and sealed with SwiftSet. RESULTS Local hemostasis was achieved with a novel technique using a combination of cyanoacrylate and local hemostatic agents despite aggressive hemorrhaging after routine exodontia. CONCLUSION By exploiting the local properties of these agents, local hemostasis can be achieved with this novel technique even in the most challenging cases of vascular anomalies.
12jcdm2x PURPOSE OF REVIEW Congestive heart failure (CHF) is one of the most common diseases of the elderly patient. The underlying pathophysiology varies considerably and approximately 50% of the patients suffer from CHF with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. Mortality in the perioperative period is increased in patients with CHF and this holds true for both minor and major surgeries. This review will summarize recent literature in the field of CHF and perioperative outcome in patients undergoing surgery with a special emphasis on actual guidelines, preoperative assessment and appropriate perioperative therapy. RECENT FINDINGS In the past 18 months, new insights in the short and long-term effects of CHF in the perioperative period have been published. The role of left ventricular ejection fraction has been studied in noncardiac surgical patients and it has been demonstrated that an ejection fraction less than 30% is associated with a significant increase in mortality and myocardial infarctions. Moreover, in 25% of patients, acute exacerbation of heart failure takes place in the perioperative period. The European Society of Anesthesiology published new guidelines on the preoperative evaluation of patients with CHF. The role of adequate preoperative evaluation and preparation of patients with CHF is discussed widely. It becomes clear that parameters like brain natriuretic peptide play a crucial role in risk stratification and prediction of outcome. Also, the treatment of patients with low cardiac output was a topic, and it became clear that established therapies including the use of β-mimetics and PDE-III inhibitors should only be initiated in very selected patient groups. However, adequately powered studies in patients with CHF are still missing and the majority of knowledge is based on patient undergoing cardiac surgery. SUMMARY CHF is a source of considerable perioperative morbidity and mortality and in contrast to coronary artery disease, knowledge is very limited and additional research urgently needed.
12wks9b9 Genetic mapping sprung in the last decade of the 20th century with the development of statistical procedures putting classical models of genetic effects together with molecular biology techniques. It eventually became clear that those models, originally developed to serve other purposes, implied limitations at different stages of the analyses-disclosing loci, measuring their effects and providing additional parameters for adequate biological/medical interpretations. The present paper is aimed to ponder whether it is realistic and worth to try and further amend classical models of genetic effects or it proves more sensible to undertake alternative theoretical strategies instead. In order to further feed into that debate, mathematical developments for gene-environment interaction stemming from the classical models of genetic effects are here revised and brought up-to-date with the prospects present-day available data bestow, particularly in the context of precision medicine. Those developments strengthen the methodology required to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic.
13bvssv1 Abstract Purpose: The aim of the present study was to assess whether SARS-CoV-2 can be detected in the expressed prostatic secretion (EPS) of patients with corona virus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Methods: 18 cases of COVID-19, and 5 suspected cases, were selected from three medical centers to detect the RNA expression of SARS-CoV-2 in their EPS with RT-PCR. Results: Results were negative in all EPS samples for SARS-CoV-2 of suspected and confirmed patients. Conclusions: No SARS-CoV-2 was expressed in EPS of patients with COVID-19.
13r7qhtf BACKGROUND: This study describes a novel approach in reducing SARS‐CoV‐2 transmission during tracheostomy. METHODS: Five patients underwent tracheostomy between April 1, 2020 and April 17, 2020. A clear and sterile plastic drape was used as an additional physical barrier against droplets and aerosols. Operative diagnosis; droplet count and distribution on plastic sheet and face shields were documented. RESULTS: Tracheostomy was performed for patients with carcinoma of tonsil (n = 2) and nasopharynx (n = 1), and aspiration pneumonia (n = 2). Droplet contamination was noted on all plastic sheets (n = 5). Droplet contamination was most severe over the central surface at 91.5% (86.7%‐100.0%) followed by the left and right lateral surfaces at 5.2% (6.7%‐10.0%) and 3.3% (6.7%‐10.0%), respectively. No droplet contamination was noted on all face shields. CONCLUSION: Plastic drapes can help reduce viral transmission to health care providers during tracheostomy. Face shields may be spared which in turn helps to conserve resources during the novel coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic.
13z63d4y COVID-19 has rapidly spread all over the world, progressing into a pandemic. This situation has urgently impelled many companies and public research institutes to concentrate their efforts on research for effective therapeutics. Here, we outline the strategies and targets currently adopted in developing a vaccine against SARS-CoV-2. Based on previous evidence and experience with SARS and MERS, the primary focus has been the Spike protein, considered as the ideal target for COVID-19 immunotherapies.
1446jzbw The coronavirus disease 2019 epidemic started in Italy by the end of January 2020 and, after 1 month, it affected 1049 persons. Based on the Italian Ministry of Health data, we reconstructed the daily course of virus-positive cases and deaths over March 2020 for the whole of Italy, 19 regions and 2 provinces. From 29 February to 31 March, there was a 100.9-fold increase in the cumulative number of cases and a 428.6-fold increase in the number of deaths in Italy. When plotted on a semilogarithmic scale, the curves tended to diverge from linearity with 23%, 16%, and 7% average daily increases during the three decades of March. Similarly, the number of deaths decreased from an average daily growth of 19% over the second decade to 10% over the third decade. The correlation coefficients relating the days to cases or deaths over each one of the three decades approached unity. As inferred from the equations of the regression lines relative to the three decades, the doubling times of cases were 3.4, 5.1, and 9.6 days, respectively. The doubling times of deaths over the second and third decades were 4.9 and 7.0 days, respectively. There was a broad geographic variability, with a striking gradient from the North, where 40.8% of cases and 57.9% of deaths occurred in Lombardy, to the South. On the whole, over March there was a trend to epidemic growth decline but the time for the end of the epidemic will depend on a variety of factors and, at present, it is unpredictable.
14he8n3u Background No clinically proven effective antiviral strategy exists for the epidemic Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). Methods We conducted a prospective, randomized, controlled, open-label multicenter trial involving adult patients with COVID-19. Patients were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive conventional therapy plus Umifenovir (Arbidol) (200mg*3/day) or Favipiravir (1600mg*2/first day followed by 600mg*2/day) for 10 days. The primary outcome was clinical recovery rate of Day 7. Latency to relief for pyrexia and cough, the rate of auxiliary oxygen therapy (AOT) or noninvasive mechanical ventilation (NMV) were the secondary outcomes. Safety data were collected for 17 days. Results 240 enrolled COVID-19 patients underwent randomization; 120 patients were assigned to receive Favipiravir (116 assessed), and 120 to receive Arbidol (120 assessed). Clinical recovery rate of Day 7 does not significantly differ between Favipiravir group (71/116) and Arbidol group (62/120) (P=0.1396, difference of recovery rate: 0.0954; 95% CI: -0.0305 to 0.2213). Favipiravir led to shorter latencies to relief for both pyrexia (difference: 1.70 days, P<0.0001) and cough (difference: 1.75 days, P<0.0001). No difference was observed of AOT or NMV rate (both P>0.05). The most frequently observed Favipiravir-associated adverse event was raised serum uric acid (16/116, OR: 5.52, P=0.0014). Conclusions Among patients with COVID-19, Favipiravir, compared to Arbidol, did not significantly improve the clinically recovery rate at Day 7. Favipiravir significantly improved the latency to relief for pyrexia and cough. Adverse effects caused Favipiravir are mild and manageable. This trial is registered with Chictr.org.cn (ChiCTR2000030254).
14pgap3r The pandemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has motivated an intensive analysis of its molecular epidemiology following its worldwide spread. To understand the early evolutionary events following its emergence, a data set of 985 complete SARS-CoV-2 sequences was assembled. Variants showed a mean of 5.5 to 9.5 nucleotide differences from each other, consistent with a midrange coronavirus substitution rate of 3 × 10-4 substitutions/site/year. Almost one-half of sequence changes were CâU transitions, with an 8-fold base frequency normalized directional asymmetry between CâU and UâC substitutions. Elevated ratios were observed in other recently emerged coronaviruses (SARS-CoV, Middle East respiratory syndrome [MERS]-CoV), and decreasing ratios were observed in other human coronaviruses (HCoV-NL63, -OC43, -229E, and -HKU1) proportionate to their increasing divergence. CâU transitions underpinned almost one-half of the amino acid differences between SARS-CoV-2 variants and occurred preferentially in both 5' U/A and 3' U/A flanking sequence contexts comparable to favored motifs of human APOBEC3 proteins. Marked base asymmetries observed in nonpandemic human coronaviruses (U â« A > G â« C) and low G+C contents may represent long-term effects of prolonged CâU hypermutation in their hosts. The evidence that much of sequence change in SARS-CoV-2 and other coronaviruses may be driven by a host APOBEC-like editing process has profound implications for understanding their short- and long-term evolution. Repeated cycles of mutation and reversion in favored mutational hot spots and the widespread occurrence of amino acid changes with no adaptive value for the virus represent a quite different paradigm of virus sequence change from neutral and Darwinian evolutionary frameworks and are not incorporated by standard models used in molecular epidemiology investigations.IMPORTANCE The wealth of accurately curated sequence data for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), its long genome, and its low substitution rate provides a relatively blank canvas with which to investigate effects of mutational and editing processes imposed by the host cell. The finding that a large proportion of sequence change in SARS-CoV-2 in the initial months of the pandemic comprised CâU mutations in a host APOBEC-like context provides evidence for a potent host-driven antiviral editing mechanism against coronaviruses more often associated with antiretroviral defense. In evolutionary terms, the contribution of biased, convergent, and context-dependent mutations to sequence change in SARS-CoV-2 is substantial, and these processes are not incorporated by standard models used in molecular epidemiology investigations.
14z8g7pk Abstract Understanding the fundamental steps of virus life cycles including virus–host interactions is essential for the design of effective antiviral strategies. Such understanding has been deferred by the complexity of higher eukaryotic host organisms. To circumvent experimental difficulties associated with this, systems were developed to replicate viruses in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The systems include viruses with RNA and DNA genomes that infect plants, animals and humans. By using the powerful methodologies available for yeast genetic analysis, fundamental processes occurring during virus replication have been brought to light. Here, we review the different viruses able to direct replication and gene expression in yeast and discuss their main contributions in the understanding of virus biology.
15cfjxvj The 3' end of the turkey coronavirus (TCV) genome and the gene encoding the nucleocapsid protein (N) were cloned and sequenced. The gene encoding the membrane protein (M) was obtained by cloning a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified fragment obtained using bovine coronavirus (BCV)-specific primers. Furthermore, five TCV DNA fragments, obtained by PCR on RNA from clinical specimens and corresponding to either the N terminus of the M protein or the complete M protein were also cloned and sequenced. The sequence revealed a 3' non-coding region of 291 bases, an open reading frame (ORF) encoding the N protein with a predicted size of 448 amino acids, or an Mr of 49K, and an ORF encoding the M protein with a predicted size of 230 amino acids and an Mr of 26K. A third ORF, encoding a hypothetical protein of 207 amino acids with an Mr of 23K was found within the N gene sequence. The amino acid sequences of both the N and M proteins were more than 99% similar to those published for BCV. Extensive similarity was also observed between the amino acid sequences of the TCV N protein and those of murine hepatitis virus (MHV) (70%) and human respiratory coronavirus strain OC43 (HCV-OC43) (98%) and between the amino acid sequences of the predicted M proteins of TCV and MHV (86%). Such striking identity suggests that BCV, TCV and HCV-OC43 must have diverged from each other only recently. A potential N-glycosylation site was found at the N terminus of the TCV M protein and is situated at the same location in BCV, MHV and transmissible gastroenteritis virus.
15m5m44x A glycoprotein H (gH)-deleted herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) was evaluated as a vaccine for the prevention of HSV-induced disease. This virus, which we term a DISC (disabled infectious single cycle) virus, can only complete one replication cycle in normal cells and should thus be safe yet still able to stimulate broad humoral and cell-mediated antiviral immune responses. A gH-deleted HSV-2 virus that has been tested as a vaccine in the guinea pig model of recurrent HSV-2 infection was constructed. Animals vaccinated with DISC HSV-2 showed complete protection against primary HSV-2–induced disease, even when challenged 6 months after vaccination. In addition, the animals were almost completely protected against recurrent disease. Even at low vaccination doses, there was a high degree of protection against primary disease. A reduction in recurrent disease symptoms was also observed following therapeutic vaccination of animals already infected with wild type HSV-2.
15qpyf2g The mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) membrane (M) protein contains only O-linked oligosaccharides. We have used this protein as a model to study the structural requirements for O-glycosylation. We show that MHV M is modified by the addition of a single oligosaccharide side chain at the cluster of 4 hydroxylamino acids present at its extreme amino terminus and identified Thr at position 5 as the functional acceptor site. The hydroxylamino acid cluster, which is quite conserved among O-glycosylated coronavirus M proteins, is not in itself sufficient for O-glycosylation. Downstream amino acids are required to introduce a functional O-glycosylation site into a foreign protein. In a mutagenic analysis O-glycosylation was found to be sensitive to some particular changes but no unique sequence motif for O-glycosylation could be identified. Expression of mutant M proteins in cells revealed that substitution of any 1 residue was tolerated, conceivably due to the occurrence of multiple UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine:polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases (GalNAc transferases). Indeed, MHV M served as a substrate for GalNac-T1, -T2, and -T3, as was demonstrated using an in situ glycosylation assay based on the co-expression of endoplasmic reticulum-retained forms of the GalNAc transferases with endoplasmic reticulum-resident MHV M mutants. The GalNAc transferases were found to have largely overlapping, but distinct substrate specificities. The requirement for a threonine as acceptor rather than a serine residue and the requirement for a proline residue three positions downstream of the acceptor site were found to be distinctive features.
160od12l COVID-19 has caused unprecedented damage worldwide, and quarantine and lockdown measures have been undertaken globally. This study focused on the differences in preventive behaviors and psycho-social health of South Koreans, as people continue engaging in leisure activities under self-regulation without a lockdown measure imposed by the government. For the sample, the frame of the “2018 Population and Housing Census” in South Korea was applied, and data from 1770 people were analyzed. The results showed that the groups participating in culture and arts and social activities displayed characteristics with high prevention. Additionally, the groups that continued leisure activities for more than five years and with family showed high preventive behaviors. Meanwhile, participation in leisure activities with friends of the opposite sex lowered preventive behavior. In terms of psycho-social health, all groups were affiliated to the potential stress group and there were no differences in the period and participation time for leisure activities. Furthermore, the group participating in leisure activities with their school and group experienced psychological stability. When lockdown measures are eased, the aforementioned characteristics should be considered to design government policy; they can also be used as a reference for public health in case of a future outbreak of an epidemic.
162uk7wm Cutaneous manifestations are becoming increasingly well‐documented in adults with COVID‐19. There is now also a growing body of literature regarding skin involvement in children, with reports of papulovesicular, petechial and widespread macular and papular lesions, as well as chilblains (pernio). We describe the case of a thirteen‐year‐old boy with confirmed COVID‐19 in the United Kingdom who presented with skin findings localized to the plantar aspects of the feet, axillae and lower limbs. The morphology was predominantly maculopapular but also included petechiae and annular lesions.
16ajxocq Recently, 6 percent of COVID-19 patients required prolonged mechanical ventilation due to severe respiratory failure. Early tracheostomy prevents the risk of postintubation upper airway stenosis. In the pandemic, all surgical interventions that generate aerosol increase the risk of contamination of the medical staff, for which reason the "traditional" indications of tracheostomy have to be revised. Authors present their recommendations based on international experiences. Orv Hetil. 2020; 161(19): 767-770.
16t5rs6j Community mitigation activities (also referred to as nonpharmaceutical interventions) are actions that persons and communities can take to slow the spread of infectious diseases. Mitigation strategies include personal protective measures (e.g., handwashing, cough etiquette, and face coverings) that persons can use at home or while in community settings; social distancing (e.g., maintaining physical distance between persons in community settings and staying at home); and environmental surface cleaning at home and in community settings, such as schools or workplaces. Actions such as social distancing are especially critical when medical countermeasures such as vaccines or therapeutics are not available. Although voluntary adoption of social distancing by the public and community organizations is possible, public policy can enhance implementation. The CDC Community Mitigation Framework (1) recommends a phased approach to implementation at the community level, as evidence of community spread of disease increases or begins to decrease and according to severity. This report presents initial data from the metropolitan areas of San Francisco, California; Seattle, Washington; New Orleans, Louisiana; and New York City, New York* to describe the relationship between timing of public policy measures, community mobility (a proxy measure for social distancing), and temporal trends in reported coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cases. Community mobility in all four locations declined from February 26, 2020 to April 1, 2020, decreasing with each policy issued and as case counts increased. This report suggests that public policy measures are an important tool to support social distancing and provides some very early indications that these measures might help slow the spread of COVID-19.
174k9trj Acute aortic dissection is one of the most common life-threatening disease which affects aortic vessel. We present a case of acute Stanford type A aortic dissection in a patient with covid-19 under treatment of ACE inhibitors. A 68-year-old female complaining of acute chest pain and dyspnea admitted to the emergency clinic of our hospital on May 6, 2020. She had history of diabetes and hypertension. This is one of the first acute aortic surgery case among patients with COVID-19.
175igdfk Modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) is the vector of choice for human and veterinary applications due to its strong safety profile and immunogenicity in vivo. The use of MVA and MVA-vectored vaccines against human and animal diseases must comply with regulatory requirements as they pertain to environmental risk assessment, particularly the characterization of potential adverse effects to humans, animals and the environment. MVA and recombinant MVA are widely believed to pose low or negligible risk to ecosystem health. However, key aspects of MVA biology require further research in order to provide data needed to evaluate the potential risks that may occur due to the use of MVA and MVA-vectored vaccines. The purpose of this paper is to identify knowledge gaps in the biology of MVA and recombinant MVA that are of relevance to its hazard characterization and discuss ongoing and future experiments aimed at providing data necessary to fill in the knowledge gaps. In addition, we presented arguments for the inclusion of uncertainty analysis and experimental investigation of verifiable worst-case scenarios in the environmental risk assessment of MVA and recombinant MVA. These will contribute to improved risk assessment of MVA and recombinant MVA vaccines.
17jvvfr3 The threat of pandemic human influenza looms as we survey the ongoing avian influenza pandemic and wonder if and when it will jump species. What are the risks and how can we plan? The nub of the problem lies in the inherent variability of the virus, which makes prediction difficult. However, it is not impossible; mathematical models can help determine and quantify critical parameters and thresholds in the relationships of those parameters, even if the relationships are nonlinear and obscure to simple reasoning. Mathematical models can derive estimates for the levels of drug stockpiles needed to buy time, how and when to modify vaccines, whom to target with vaccines and drugs, and when to enforce quarantine measures. Regardless, the models used for pandemic planning must be tested, and for this we must continue to gather data, not just for exceptional scenarios but also for seasonal influenza.
17la1byk This paper analyses the evolution of COVID 19 disease in Cameroon over the period March 6 April 2020 using SIR model. Specifically, 1) we evaluate the basic reproduction number of the virus. 2) Determine the peak of the infection and the spread-out period of the disease. 3) Simulate the interventions of public health authorities. Data used in this study is obtained from the Ministry of Health of Cameroon. The results suggest that over the period, the reproduction number of the COVID 19 in Cameroon is about 1.5 and the peak of the infection could occur at the end of May 2020 with about 7.7% of the population infected. Besides, implementation of efficient public health policies could help flattens the epidemic curve.
17tucoy7 To improve the performance of underwater vehicle-manipulator system (UVMS), which is subject to system uncertainties and time-varying external disturbances in trajectory tracking control, a sliding mode controller is proposed in this paper. Firstly, in order to reduce a influence of system uncertainties and external disturbances, a sliding mode controller is designed based on an exponential approach law. Then the error asymptotic convergence of the trajectory tracking control is proven by the Lyapunov-like function. Finally, the effectiveness of the sliding mode controller is verified by rich simulation. Results show that the designed controller can not only realize the coordination control of UVMS accurately, but also can eliminate the chattering of control signal.
17xwyzt9 BACKGROUND Laparoscopic adrenalectomy via three or four trocars is a well-established procedure. This report describes the initial experience with single-incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) using the transperitoneal approach for left adrenalectomy. METHODS Between April 2010 and August 2011, all consecutive patients with adrenal masses, including Conn's syndrome, Cushing's adenoma, and nonfunctional adrenal tumors, who agreed to undergo SILS adrenalectomy were included in a prospective study. The left 2.5-cm subcostal incision was the sole point of entry. Data of patients who underwent SILS adrenalectomy were compared with those from an uncontrolled group of patients who underwent conventional laparoscopic adrenalectomy during the same study period. RESULTS There were 20 patients in each study group (20 men, 20 women; mean age [SD] = 50 [6.5] years). SILS was successfully performed and none of the patients required conversion to an open procedure. In one case of SILS procedure, an additional lateral 5-mm port was needed for retraction of the kidney. The mean (SD) duration of the operation was 95 (20) min in the SILS group and 80 (8) min in the conventional laparoscopic adrenalectomy group (p = 0.052). There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications. There were no differences between the two study groups with respect to postoperative pain, number of patients who resumed oral intake within the first 24 h, final pathologic diagnosis, and length of hospital stay. CONCLUSION SILS left adrenalectomy is a technically feasible and safe procedure in carefully selected patients. The definitive clinical, aesthetic and functional advantages of this technique require further analysis.
180x1fvb A stochastic Individual Contact Model (ICM) using SIR compartments allowing for time-variant parameters was used to simulate 100 non-pharmaceutical intervention (NPI) strategies and exit trajectories for a hypothetical population, and to collect epidemiological and non-epidemiological outcomes to measure the performance of these strategies over the course of a period of intervention (up to six months) for a total duration of one-year to allow the full implications of the strategy and endgame to manifest. We find that variations in the time dimension and intensity of various strategies can have vastly different performance outcomes: (i) the timing of NPIs can 'shrink the area under the curve' (cumulative infections) not just 'flatten the curve'; (ii) prolonged lockdowns have diminishing margins of returns; (iii) smooth, submaximal lockdowns perform better than pulsatile lockdowns; and (iv) the efficiency of various strategies incorporating both epidemiological and non-epidemiological outcomes vary substantially. Most sobering, none of the simulated strategies allow for an 'acceptable' path to exit within six months due to very large gaps in health system capacity.
181znwnx Currently, COVID-19 has been reported in nearly all countries globally. To date, little is known about the viral shedding duration, clinical course and treatment efficacy of COVID-19 near Hubei Province, China. This multicentre, retrospective study was performed in 12 hospitals in Henan and Shaanxi Provinces from 20 January to 8 February 2020. Clinical outcomes were followed up until 26 March 2020. The viral shedding duration, full clinical course and treatment efficacy were analysed in different subgroups of patients. A total of 149 COVID-19 patients were enrolled. The median age was 42 years, and 61.1% (91) were males. Of them, 133 (89.3%) had fever, 131 of 144 (91%) had pneumonia, 27 (18.1%) required intensive care unit (ICU) management, 3 (2%) were pregnant, and 3 (2%) died. Two premature newborns were negative for SARS-CoV-2. In total, the median SARS-CoV-2 shedding period and clinical course were 12 (IQR: 9-17; mean: 13.4, 95% CI: 12.5, 14.2) and 20 (IQR: 16-24; mean: 21.2, 95% CI: 20.1, 22.3) days, respectively, and ICU patients had longer median viral shedding periods (21 [17-24] versus 11 [9-15]) and clinical courses (30 [22-33] vs. 19 [15.8-22]) than non-ICU patients (both p < .0001). SARS-CoV-2 clearances occurred at least 2 days before fatality in 3 non-survivors. Current treatment with any anti-viral agent or combination did not present the benefit of shortening viral shedding period and clinical course (all p > .05) in real-life settings. In conclusion, the viral shedding duration and clinical course in Henan and Shaanxi Provinces were shorter than those in Hubei Province, and current anti-viral therapies were ineffective for shortening viral shedding duration and clinical course in real-world settings. These findings expand our knowledge of the SARS-CoV-2 infection and may be helpful for management of the epidemic outbreak of COVID-19 worldwide. Further studies concerning effective anti-viral agents and vaccines are urgently needed.
18khagfy We report that COVID-19 mortality and recovery rates in Hubei Province, China exponentially decays (R2>0.93) and grows (R2>0.95), respectively. A great number of newly supplied medical resources (health workers and beds) enabled overwhelming patients to be treated effectively. This may help other countries to deal with the coming COVID-19 outbreaks.
18zmvlmk Feline infectious peritonitis virus (FIPV) causes a lethal systemic granulomatous disease in wild and domestic cats around the world. Currently, no effective vaccines or drugs have been developed against it. As a member of the genus Alphacoronavirus, FIPV encodes two polyprotein precursors required for genome replication and transcription. Each polyprotein undergoes extensive proteolytic processing, resulting in functional subunits. This process is mainly mediated by its genome-encoded main protease, which is an attractive target for antiviral drug design. In this study, the main protease of FIPV in complex with a Michael acceptor-type inhibitor was crystallized. The complex crystals diffracted to 2.5 Å resolution and belonged to space group I422, with unit-cell parameters a = 112.3, b = 112.3, c = 102.1 Å. There is one molecule per asymmetric unit.
1933fl0j When animals are introduced to a specific pathogen-free (SPF) facility, care must be taken to avoid the possibility of disease transmission to the local colony. This study investigated the application of a combination of reproductive biotechnologies to establish a new disease-free colony of two rat strains, DarkAgouti(DA/Pit) and Wistar Furth(WF/Pit), from a stock known to be chronically infected with the following pathogens: Mycoplasma pulmonis, Kilham's rat virus, sialodacryoadenitis/coronavirus, and reovirus type 3. To eliminate the pathogens and optimize the use of animals, superovulation, embryo washing and trypsinization, and embryo transfer were used. Donors (DA/Pit and WF/Pit) were treated as follows: the mature females were synchronized by subcutaneous (s.c.) injection with 40 micrograms luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist/animal on day -4. All immature and mature females were induced to superovulate by continuous s.c. infusion with a commercial porcine follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) preparation (3.4 or 6.8 mg NIH-FSH-P1 units per day, respectively), beginning on the morning of day -2. On the afternoon of day 0, the animals received 30 IU human chorionic gonadotropin injected intraperitoneally and mated. From a total of 213 ova flushed from the oviducts of 16 programmed donors, 195 transferrable two-cell embryos were recovered. Two outbred strains of SPF rats, Long-Evans (LE) and Wistar (W), were used as recipients. These mature females (LE and W) were synchronized by using luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist as described and made pseudopregnant by cervical stimulation. Two-cell embryos (DA/Pit and WF/Pit) were washed and trypsinized, then transferred to the oviducts of the pseudopregnant recipients (LE and W).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
19ftnox0 PURPOSE Experience with the endovascular treatment of middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysms by flow diverter devices (FDD) is still limited. This study examines the results and complications of FDD for small aneurysms at this location. METHODS From February 2010 to December 2013, 14 patients (10 women; mean age 59 years) with 15 small MCA aneurysms were treated with FDD. All procedures were performed with the Pipeline embolization device (PED). RESULTS Complete occlusion was obtained in 12/15 aneurysms (80%) and partial occlusion in 3 (20%). Among 13 aneurysms with a side branch, this was patent at the angiographic control in 4 cases, showed decreased filling in 6, and was occluded in 3 (with neurological deficits in 2). All PEDs were patent at follow-up. Post-procedural ischemic complications occurred in 4 (27%) procedures with permanent neurological deficit (modified Rankin score 2) in 3 (21%). No early or delayed aneurysm rupture, no subarachnoid or intraparenchymal hemorrhage and no deaths occurred. CONCLUSIONS Endovascular treatment with FDD is a relatively safe treatment for small MCA aneurysms resulting in a high occlusion rate. The findings of this study suggest that complete occlusion after endovascular treatment with FDD can be delayed (>6 months). Ischemic complications may occur as early or delayed, particularly at clopidogrel interruption.
19kzb6ag Although sequencing of the 3′ end of the genome of Australian infectious bronchitis viruses (IBVs) has shown that their structural genes are distinct from those of IBVs found in other countries, their replicase genes have not been analysed. To examine this, the complete genomic sequences of the two subpopulations of the VicS vaccine, VicS-v and VicS-del, were determined. Compared with VicS-v, the more attenuated VicS-del strain had two non-synonymous changes in the non-structural protein 6 (nsp6), a transmembrane (TM) domain that may participate in autocatalytic release of the 3-chymotrypsin-like protease, a polymorphic difference at the end of the S2 gene, which coincided with the body transcription-regulating sequence (B-TRS) of mRNA 3 and a truncated open reading frame for a peptide encoded by gene 4 (4b). These genetic differences could be responsible for the differences between these variants in pathogenicity in vivo, and replication in vitro. Phylogenetic analysis of the whole genome showed that VicS-v and VicS-del did not cluster with strains from other countries, supporting the hypothesis that Australian IBV strains have been evolving independently for some time, and analyses of individual polymerase peptide and S glycoprotein genes suggested a distant common ancestor with no recent recombination. This study suggests the potential role of the TM domain in nsp6, the integrity of the S2 protein and the B-TRS 3, and the putative accessory protein 4b, as well as the 3′ untranslated region, in the virulence and replication of IBV and has provided a better understanding of relationships between the Australian vaccine strain of IBV and those used elsewhere.
19mtebq7 The coral genus Acropora is reviewed from Indonesia for the first time, following detailed collections made at 131 sites and additional material collected from approximately 40 sites throughout the archipelago during the period 1993–6. Eighty‐three species are recorded, four of these (Acropora halmaherae, A. awi, A. plumosa and A. simplex) new to science, six first described in 1994 and six in 1997. Records are compared with specimen‐based records from localities worldwide. The species of Acrokora occurring in Indonesian waters include five recorded only from the Indian Ocean and Indonesia, seven recorded only from the Pacific Ocean, South China Sea and Indonesia, and a further 10 species apparently endemic to Indonesia, as well as widespread Indo‐Pacific species. Two species (A. jacquelineae Wallace, 1994 and A. batunai Wallace, 1996) are recorded only from north central Indonesia and Papua New Guinea, and two species (A. russelli Wallace, 1994 and A. turaki Wallace, 1994) only from north central Indonesia and north western Australia. The findings contribute to a new view of the corals of the Indo‐Pacific ‘centre of diversity’ as a composite fauna with origins in a number of events in space and time.
19qg6uji We have identified oleuropein (Ole) and hydroxytyrosol (HT) as a unique class of HIV-1 inhibitors from olive leaf extracts effective against viral fusion and integration. We used molecular docking simulation to study the interactions of Ole and HT with viral targets. We find that Ole and HT bind to the conserved hydrophobic pocket on the surface of the HIV-gp41 fusion domain by hydrogen bonds with Q577 and hydrophobic interactions with I573, G572, and L568 on the gp41 N-terminal heptad repeat peptide N36, interfering with formation of the gp41 fusion-active core. To test and confirm modeling predications, we examined the effect of Ole and HT on HIV-1 fusion complex formation using native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and circular dichroism spectroscopy. Ole and HT exhibit dose dependent inhibition on HIV-1 fusion core formation with EC(50)s of 66–58 nM, with no detectable toxicity. Our findings on effects on HIV-1 integrase are reported separately.
1a9cfe84 [Image: see text] Coronaviruses may produce severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). As a matter of fact, a new SARS-type virus, SARS-CoV-2, is responsible for the global pandemic in 2020 with unprecedented sanitary and economic consequences for most countries. In the present contribution we study, by all-atom equilibrium and enhanced sampling molecular dynamics simulations, the interaction between the SARS Unique Domain and RNA guanine quadruplexes, a process involved in eluding the defensive response of the host thus favoring viral infection of human cells. Our results evidence two stable binding modes involving an interaction site spanning either the protein dimer interface or only one monomer. The free energy profile unequivocally points to the dimer mode as the thermodynamically favored one. The effect of these binding modes in stabilizing the protein dimer was also assessed, being related to its biological role in assisting the SARS viruses to bypass the host protective response. This work also constitutes a first step in the possible rational design of efficient therapeutic agents aiming at perturbing the interaction between SARS Unique Domain and guanine quadruplexes, hence enhancing the host defenses against the virus.
1af9sps4 Initially the intraepithelial leukocytes (IEL) of specific pathogen free (SPF) mice were compared with those of mice held without isolation and were found to differ markedly in total number and distribution of cell surface antigens. The IEL from SPF mice expressed significantly less Thy-1, Lyt-1, and Lyt-2 antigens than their conventional counterparts. The local cell-mediated immune response of mucosal lymphocytes to an enteric murine coronavirus (MHV-Y) was studied in inbred strains of naive SPF mice. A potent in vitro cytotoxic activity was demonstrated by mucosal leukocytes, especially IEL, and spleen cells for MHV-Y-infected syngeneic and allogeneic target cells. The cytotoxicity was not restricted by the major histocompatibility complex. Targets infected with Pichinde virus, an enveloped nonenterotropic virus, were not lysed by these cells. The phenotype of the IEL effector cell was asialo GM1+, Thy-1-, Lyt-1-, Lyt-2-. This cell represents a small subpopulation of the total IEL. After the in vivo administration of anti-asialo GM1 sera, the virus-specific cytotoxic function of the IEL was markedly diminished in in vitro assays, and there was enhanced persistence of virus in gut tissues in vivo. The IEL effector population is defined as a natural killer-like cell that appears to be active in the defense of the gut epithelium to a murine enteric coronavirus.
1aj04b74 One cannot spend >5 min on social media at the moment without finding a link to some conspiracy theory or other regarding the origin of SARS-CoV2, the coronavirus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. From the virus being deliberately released as a bioweapon to pharmaceutical companies blocking the trials of natural remedies to boost their dangerous drugs and vaccines, the Internet is rife with far-fetched rumors. And predictably, now that the first immunization trials have started, the antivaccine lobby has latched on to most of them. In the last week, the trailer for a new "bombshell documentary" Plandemic has been doing the rounds, gaining notoriety for being repeatedly removed from YouTube and Facebook. We usually would not pay much heed to such things, but for retrovirologists like us, the name associated with these claims is unfortunately too familiar: Dr. Judy Mikovits.
1ama9ebw The ongoing outbreak of COVID-19 that began in Wuhan, China, become an emergency of international concern when thousands of people were infected around the world. This study reports a case simultaneously infected by SARS-Cov-2 and HIV, which showed a longer disease course and slower generation of specific antibodies. This case highlights that a co-infection of SARS-Cov-2 and HIV may severely impair the immune system.
1ay94eda This review discusses in vivo airway aspects of plasma exudation in relation to current views on epithelial permeability and epithelial regeneration in health and disease. Microvascular-epithelial exudation of bulk plasma proteins characteristically occurs in asthmatic patients, being especially pronounced in those with severe and exacerbating asthma. Healthy human and guinea pig airways challenged by noninjurious histamine-leukotriene–type autacoids also respond through prompt mucosal exudation of nonsieved plasma macromolecules. Contrary to current beliefs, epithelial permeability in the opposite direction (ie, absorption of inhaled molecules) has not been increased in patients with asthma and allergic rhinitis or in acutely exuding healthy airways. A slightly increased subepithelial hydrostatic pressure produces such unidirectional outward perviousness to macromolecules. Lack of increased absorption permeability in asthmatic patients can further be reconciled with occurrence of epithelial shedding, leaving small patches of denuded basement membrane. Counteracting escalating barrier breaks, plasma exudation promptly covers the denuded patches. Here it creates and sustains a biologically active barrier involving a neutrophil-rich, fibrin-fibronectin net. Furthermore, in the plasma-derived milieu, all epithelial cell types bordering the denuded patch dedifferentiate and migrate from all sides to cover the denuded basement membrane. However, this speedy epithelial regeneration can come at a cost. Guinea pig in vivo studies demonstrate that patches of epithelial denudation regeneration are exudation hot spots evoking asthma-like features, including recruitment/activation of granulocytes, proliferation of fibrocytes/smooth muscle cells, and basement membrane thickening. In conclusion, nonsieved plasma macromolecules can operate on the intact airway mucosa as potent components of first-line innate immunity responses. Exuded plasma also takes center stage in epithelial regeneration. When exaggerated, epithelial regeneration can contribute to the inception and development of asthma.
1b18gop3 OBJECTIVE To evaluate 30-day postoperative outcomes in laparoscopic (LS) versus open splenectomy (OS). SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA LS has generally been associated with lower rates of postoperative complications than OS. However, evidence mainly comes from small studies that failed to adjust for the confounding effects of the underlying indication or clinical condition that may have favored the use of one technique over the other. METHODS A retrospective cohort study of patients undergoing splenectomy in 2008 and 2009 using data from the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database (n = 1781). Retrieved data included 30-day mortality and morbidity (cardiac, respiratory, central nervous system, renal, wound, sepsis, venous thromboembolism, and major bleeding outcomes), demographics, indication, and preoperative risk factors. We used multivariate logistic regression to assess the adjusted effect of the splenectomy technique on outcomes. RESULTS A total of 874 (49.1%) cases had LS and 907 (50.9%) had OS. After adjusting for all potential confounders including the indication and preoperative risk factors, LS was associated with decreased 30-day mortality [OR (odds ratio): 0.39, 95% CI: 0.18-0.84] and postoperative respiratory occurrences (OR: 0.46, 95% CI: 0.27-0.76), wound occurrences (OR: 0.37, 95% CI: 0.11-0.79), and sepsis (OR: 0.52, 95% CI: 0.26-0.89) when compared with OS. Patients who underwent LS also had a significantly shorter total length of hospital stay and were less likely to receive intraoperative transfusions compared with patients who underwent OS. CONCLUSIONS LS is associated with more favorable postoperative outcomes than OS, irrespective of the indication for splenectomy or the patient's clinical status.
1bnkjee9 We describe 9 patients at a medical center in Detroit, Michigan, USA, with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 and Clostridiodes difficile. Both infections can manifest as digestive symptoms and merit screening when assessing patients with diarrhea during the coronavirus disease pandemic. These co-infections also highlight the continued importance of antimicrobial stewardship.
1box6noa Most severe manifestations of COVID‐19 cases, such as multiple organ failure and death, have been linked to coagulation dysfunction markers, such as platelet reduction and increases in prothrombin time, fibrin degradation products and, mainly, D‐dimer [1]. A recent paper by Tang et al. [2] in this journal reported that heparin treatment reduced mortality of COVID‐19 patients with elevated D‐dimer; similar preliminary results have been reported elsewhere [3]. A mounting body of evidence shows that SARS‐CoV‐2 causes a “cytokine storm” [1,4] that activates the coagulation cascade, leading to thrombosis. Similar to the findings in severe sepsis, generalized deposition of intravascular thrombi compromises the blood supply of several organs, leading to organ failure [5].
1bt4kvxc Porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED) is an intestinal infectious disease caused by porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV); manifestations of the disease are diarrhea, vomiting and dehydration. Starting from the end of 2010, a PED outbreak occurred in several pig-producing provinces in southern China. Subsequently, the disease spread throughout the country and caused enormous economic losses to the pork industry. Accumulating studies demonstrated that new PEDV variants that appeared in China were responsible for the PED outbreak. In the current mini-review, we summarize PEDV epidemiology and vaccination in China.
1bwwp2lt Intrinsic genetic instability of RNA viruses may lead to the accumulation of revertants during manufacture of live viral vaccines, requiring rigorous quality control to ensure vaccine safety. Each lot of oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) is tested for neurovirulence in animals and also for the presence of neurovirulent revertants. Mutant analysis by PCR and restriction enzyme cleavage (MAPREC) is used to measure the frequency of neurovirulent mutations at the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of the viral genome that correlate with the level of neurovirulence determined by the monkey neurovirulence test. However, MAPREC can only monitor mutations at a few genomic loci and miss mutations at other sites that could adversely affect vaccine quality. Here we propose to use massively parallel sequencing (MPS) for sensitive detection and quantification of all mutations in the entire genome of attenuated viruses. Analysis of vaccine samples and reference preparations demonstrated a perfect agreement with MAPREC results. Quantitative MPS analysis of validated reference preparations tested by MAPREC produced identical results, suggesting that the method could take advantage of the existing reference materials and be used as a replacement for the MAPREC procedure in lot release of OPV. Patterns of mutations present at a low level in vaccine preparations were characteristic of seed viruses used for their manufacture and could be used for identification of individual batches. This approach may represent the ultimate tool for monitoring genetic consistency of live viral vaccines.
1bxoxy30 The study of N-linked glycosylation as it relates to virus biology has become an area of intense interest in recent years due to its ability to impart various advantages to virus survival and virulence. HIV and influenza, two clear threats to human health, have been shown to rely on expression of specific oligosaccharides to evade detection by the host immune system. Additionally, other viruses such as Hendra, SARS-CoV, influenza, hepatitis and West Nile rely on N-linked glycosylation for crucial functions such as entry into host cells, proteolytic processing and protein trafficking. This review focuses on recent findings on the importance of glycosylation to viral virulence and immune evasion for several prominent human pathogens.
1c0i5q74 Background: A growing number of epidemiological cases are proving the possibility of airborne transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Ensuring adequate ventilation rate is essential to reduce the risk of infection in confined spaces. Methods: We obtained the quantum generation rate by a COVID-19 infector with a reproductive number based fitting approach, and then estimated the association between infected probability and ventilation rate with the Wells-Riley equation. Results: The estimated quantum generation rate of COVID-19 is 14-48 /h. To ensure infected probabolity less than 1%, ventilation rate lareger than common values (100-350 m3/h and 1200-4000 m3/h for 15 minutes and 3 hours exposure, respectively) is required. If both the infector and susceptibles wear masks, the ventilation rate ensuring less than 1% infected probability is reduced to 50-180 m3/h and 600-2000 m3/h correspondingly, which is easier to be achieved by normal ventilation mode applied in some typical scenarios, including offices, classrooms, buses and aircraft cabins. Interpretation: The risk of potential airborne transmission in confined spaces cannot be ignored. Strict preventive measures that have been widely adopted should be effective in reducing the risk of airborne transmitted infection.
1cn1le4p The human (pro)renin receptor (hPRR) was displayed on the surface of Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) with and without fusion to glycoprotein 64 (GP64) of the BmNPV. hPRR1 is a native hPRR with an additional FLAG peptide sequence inserted between the signal peptide and prorenin-binding domain. hPRR2 has the prorenin-binding domain inserted between amino acid residues (81)Asp and (82)Pro of GP64. hPRR4 has the prorenin-binding domain inserted in (81)Asp and (320)Met of partially deleted GP64. Incorporation of hPRR was confirmed in recombinant BmNPV (rBmNPV) but not in cysteine protease-deleted rBmNPV. hPRR1 was observed in ER, but hPRR2 and hPRR4 were observed around the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and in its periphery. rBmNPV-hPRR1 and -hPRR2, carrying hPRR1 and hPRR2 respectively, showed binding affinity to human renin, but rBmNPV-hPRR4 did not. The presence of hPRR4 of rBmNPV-hPRR4 was confirmed in western blotting under nonreducing conditions, suggesting that although hPRR4 was incorporated in rBmNPV-hPRR4, it behaved as a non-functional aggregate. This rBmNPV display system can also be used for analyzing a ligand-receptor interaction.
1cxag11z We sought to investigate the effect of extracts from Rosa gallica petals (RPE) on skin whitening and anti-wrinkle activity. Tyrosinase activity was attenuated by RPE treatment, concomitant with the reduction of melanin accumulation in human B16F10 melanoma. Treatment of the facial skin of volunteers in a clinical trial with an RPE-containing formulation enhanced skin brightness (L* value) significantly. The underlying mechanism responsible was determined to be associated with mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation. In addition, RPE exhibited anti-wrinkle formation activity of human dermal fibroblasts by suppressing matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 level. In vivo study, RPE also inhibited solar ultraviolet-stimulated MMP-1 level by c-Jun regulation. Overall, our findings indicate that RPE evokes skin whitening and anti-wrinkle formation activity by regulating intracellular signaling, supporting its utility as an ingredient for skin whitening and anti-wrinkle cosmetic products.
1d33lv3p Standard precautions should be applied to prevent health care-associated infections during every nursing activity. However, adherence to standard precautions was reported to be inadequate. Therefore, this study aimed to identify the rates of standard precaution adherence and the association between perception of patient safety management and standard precaution adherence. In this cross-sectional descriptive study, a convenience sample of nurses was recruited from a university-affiliated teaching hospital in Seoul, Korea. Data were collected using a structured self-report questionnaire. Among the 332 questionnaires returned (response rate: 94.9%), a total of 329 nurses were analyzed. In the present study, the overall standard precaution adherence rate was approximately 53.5%. The multiple linear regression results revealed that participants’ perceptions of patient safety management were only significantly associated with standard precaution adherence after adjusting other covariates (β = 0.412, p < 0.001). Nurse supervisors should focus more on raising awareness about nurses’ perception of patient safety management based on the specific work environment, such as the total number of nurses working together and the nurse-to-patient ratio. Nurse educators should develop integrated curricula to help graduate nurses transition smoothly into professional practice and enhance adherence to standard precautions in diverse health care settings.
1dc9j9og Expression of specific virus receptors on the surface of intestinal epithelial cells or M cells can determine whether or not a animal is susceptible to infection with an enterotropic virus. Receptors for many animal viruses have been identified. The specificity of virus-receptor interactions clearly affects the species specificity of virus infection, and in some instances may be an important determinant of viral tissue tropism. In this paper, the specificity of coronavirus-receptor interactions is summarized. Porcine and human coronaviruses utilize aminopeptidase N as their receptors, but in a species-specific manner. Mouse hepatitis virus uses several rodent glycoproteins in the carcinoembryonic antigen family as receptors. In addition, some coronaviruses can interact with carbohydrate moieties on the cell surface. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of virus-receptor interactions may lead to development of novel strategies for the control of enteric viral diseases.
1dg3hy1h Multiple Organ Failure (MOF) has largely been attributed to bacterial sepsis, though conclusive evidence of an essential role for bacteria and/or their endotoxins is still lacking. On the other hand, MOF and the clinical syndrome of sepsis may be aseptically induced in germfree animals. This paper reviews the evidence that excessive activation of endogenous humoral mediators and inflammatory cells may cause this highly lethal syndrome.
1dygn0rw We assessed the effects of apparent temperature (AT) on mortality and the effect modifications attributable to individual characteristics in Hong Kong with subtropical climate conditions. Two datasets are used for analyses: one from mortality data of the general elderly population in 1998–2009; the other from an elderly cohort with 66,820 subjects recruited in 1998–2001 with mortality outcomes followed up until 2009. We found that AT below 20.8 °C was associated with an increase in mortality risk of 1.99% (95% confidence interval: 0.64%, 2.64%) for all causes, 2.48% (0.57%, 4.36%) for cardiovascular disease, and 3.19% (0.59%, 5.73%) for respiratory disease for every 1 °C decrease in AT over the following 3 days. The associations were modified by sex and body mass index, in particular stronger associations were observed for females and for obese subjects.
1e4dbo41 Coronavirus MHV‐JHM infections of rats provide useful models to study the pathogenesis of virus‐induced central nervous system disease. To analyze the role of the immune response against defined MHV‐JHM antigens, we tested the protective efficacy of vaccinia virus (VV) recombinants expressing either the nucleocapsid (N) or the spike (S) protein. A strong protection was mediated in animals by immunization with recombinant VV encoding a wild‐type S protein (VV‐S(Wildtype)), whereas VV recombinant expressing a mutant S(354CR) protein (VV‐S(354CR)) had no protective effect. Recombinant VV encoding N protein (VV‐N) induces a humoral and a CD4(+) T cell response, but did not prevent acute disease regardless of the immunization protocol. In these experiments, challenge with an otherwise lethal dose of MHV‐JHM was performed prior to the induction of virus‐neutralizing antibodies and studies with the anti‐CD8(+) monoclonal antibody, MRC OX8 showed that elimination of the CD8(+) subset of T cells abrogates the protective effect. This result indicates that CD8(+) T cells primed by recombinant VV expressing wild‐type S protein are a primary mechanism of immunological defense against MHV‐JHM infection in rats.
1e56zznv In diesem Kapitel wird ein Überblick über Impfungen, meldepflichtige Erkrankungen sowie allgemeine Hinweise zur Hygiene im notfallmedizinischen Umfeld gegeben.
1ew0p6x7 The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has been found to be caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). However, comprehensive knowledge of COVID-19 remains incomplete and many important features are still unknown. This manuscripts conduct a meta-analysis and a sensitivity study to answer the questions: What is the basic reproduction number? How long is the incubation time of the disease on average? What portion of infections are asymptomatic? And ultimately, what is the case fatality rate? Our studies estimate the basic reproduction number to be 3.15 with the 95% interval (2.41, 3.90), the average incubation time to be 5.08 days with the 95% confidence interval (4.77, 5.39) (in day), the asymptomatic infection rate to be 46% with the 95% confidence interval (18.48%, 73.60%), and the case fatality rate to be 2.72% with 95% confidence interval (1.29%, 4.16%) where asymptomatic infections are accounted for.
1f04zqbd BACKGROUND Different materials have been evaluated for anastomotic reinforcement to prevent gastrointestinal anastomotic leakage. In this experimental study, small intestinal submucosa (SIS) was tested as a sealing for stapled colonic anastomosis in a porcine model. The aims of this study were to determine the macroscopic and microscopic outcomes and to evaluate the safety and feasibility of applying SIS for anastomotic sealing. MATERIALS AND METHODS Circular stapled anastomoses were performed in 18 pigs. Standard anastomosis in the control group (n = 8) was compared to an SIS-sealed anastomosis in the study group (n = 10). After 30 days, anastomotic segments were examined for macroscopic and microscopic regeneration and their resistance to mechanical stress. Furthermore, animal survival and clinical course were evaluated. RESULTS None of the animals developed anastomotic leakage, intraabdominal abscess, or peritonitis. Shrinkage of SIS was evident in nine of ten animals. Encapsulation and displacement of the SIS patches were seen in two animals. Quantity of anastomotic granulation tissue and rate of complete mucosal coverage of anastomotic line were increased in SIS-sealed anastomoses without reaching significance. Moreover, no significant differences were found in the rate of survival of the animals, anastomotic stricture formation, intraabdominal adhesions, anastomotic bursting pressure, and microscopic healing parameters of the anastomosis between stapled colonic standard anastomosis and anastomosis protected by SIS. CONCLUSION The results of this study indicate a safe use of SIS for anastomotic reinforcement in a porcine model. Adverse effects like strictures, increased adhesions, and anastomotic abscesses were absent. Promoting effects on colonic wound healing by SIS were microscopically evident. The results argue for a careful clinical evaluation in humans.
1f2n8p01 Using estimates from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the World Health Organization, and published models of the expected evolution of pandemic influenza, we modeled the surge capacity of healthcare facility and intensive care unit (ICU) requirements over time in northern Netherlands (≈1.7 million population). We compared the demands of various scenarios with estimates of maximum ICU capacity, factoring in healthcare worker absenteeism as well as reported and realistic estimates derived from semistructured telephone interviews with key management in ICUs in the study area. We show that even during the peak of the pandemic, most patients requiring ICU admission may be served, even those who have non–influenza-related conditions, provided that strong indications and decision-making rules are maintained for admission as well as for continuation (or discontinuation) of life support. Such a model should be integral to a preparedness plan for a pandemic with a new human-transmissible agent.
1fbl3tqn OBJECTIVES: The onset of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has forced our cardiac surgery programme and hospital to enact drastic measures that has forced us to change how we care for cardiac surgery patients, assist with COVID-19 care and enable support for the hospital in terms of physical resources, providers and resident training. METHODS: In this review, we review the cardiovascular manifestations of COVID-19 and describe our system-wide adaptations to the pandemic, including the use of telemedicine, how a severe reduction in operative volume affected our programme, the process of redeployment of staff, repurposing of residents into specific task teams, the creation of operation room intensive care units, and the challenges that we faced in this process. RESULTS: We offer a revised set of definitions of surgical priority during this pandemic and how this was applied to our system, followed by specific considerations in coronary/valve, aortic, heart failure and transplant surgery. Finally, we outline a path forward for cardiac surgery for the near future. CONCLUSIONS: We recognize that individual programmes around the world will eventually face COVID-19 with varying levels of infection burden and different resources, and we hope this document can assist programmes to plan for the future.
1fdy9vdu A prospective randomized phase III study was performed to evaluate whether intensified cytarabine would induce a higher response rate and longer event-free interval as compared to low-dose cytarabine in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). One hundred and eighteen patients with CML in early chronic phase entered the study. Twenty-eight out of 32 patients assigned to group A received two cycles of a combination of intensified cytarabine and idarubicin followed by interferon alfa (IFN-α) maintenance, 28 patients in group B received standard treatment by a combination of low-dose cytarabine and IFN-α. Forty-nine patients with a human leukocyte antigen-identical sibling donor proceeded to allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) and nine patients were excluded from the analysis. Hematological response was observed in 97% of the patients in group A vs 86% of the patients in group B during the first year of treatment. In group A, 16 patients (50%) achieved a major cytogenetic response, which compared to seven patients (25%) with a major cytogenetic response in group B. With a median follow-up of 58 months (range 34–76), event-free survival was not significantly different between arms A and B. The estimated 5-year survival rate was 56% in the intensified arm and 77% in the low-dose arm (P = 0.05). Recipients of allo-SCT showed a 5-year estimated survival rate of 55%. Although intensified cytarabine induced a higher initial percentage of major and complete cytogenetic responses, responses were not sustained by IFN-α maintenance therapy.
1g0mz73b In the recent coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, a higher proportion of patients with severe disease were found in older persons with comorbidities. This observation has been related to the use of drugs that can increase the cellular expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) that has been recognized as target to which the virus bind to cells. Although this hypothesis is possible, it may also have other explanations which are discussed.
1g4oay7f The recently emerged severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) is a potent pathogen of humans and is capable of rapid global spread. Peptide-conjugated antisense morpholino oligomers (P-PMO) were designed to bind by base pairing to specific sequences in the SARS-CoV (Tor2 strain) genome. The P-PMO were tested for their capacity to inhibit production of infectious virus as well as to probe the function of conserved viral RNA motifs and secondary structures. Several virus-targeted P-PMO and a random-sequence control P-PMO showed low inhibitory activity against SARS coronavirus. Certain other virus-targeted P-PMO reduced virus-induced cytopathology and cell-to-cell spread as a consequence of decreasing viral amplification. Active P-PMO were effective when administered at any time prior to peak viral synthesis and exerted sustained antiviral effects while present in culture medium. P-PMO showed low nonspecific inhibitory activity against translation of nontargeted RNA or growth of the arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus. Two P-PMO targeting the viral transcription-regulatory sequence (TRS) region in the 5' untranslated region were the most effective inhibitors tested. After several viral passages in the presence of a TRS-targeted P-PMO, partially drug-resistant SARS-CoV mutants arose which contained three contiguous base point mutations at the binding site of a TRS-targeted P-PMO. Those partially resistant viruses grew more slowly and formed smaller plaques than wild-type SARS-CoV. These results suggest PMO compounds have powerful therapeutic and investigative potential toward coronavirus infection.
1gfslssx Therapeutic hypothermia was a mainstay of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) management for half a century. Recent trials have suggested that its effect on long-term functional outcome is neutral or negative, despite apparently promising pre-clinical data. Systematic review and meta-analysis is a useful tool to collate experimental data and investigate the basis of its conclusions. We searched three online databases to identify studies testing systemic hypothermia as monotherapy for treatment of animals subjected to a TBI. Data pertaining to TBI paradigm, animal subjects, and hypothermia management were extracted as well as those relating to risk of bias. We pooled outcome data where sufficient numbers allowed and investigated heterogeneity in neurobehavioral outcomes using multi-variate meta-regression. We identified 90 publications reporting 272 experiments testing hypothermia in animals subject to TBI. The subjects were mostly small animals, with well-established models predominating. Target temperature was comparable to clinical trial data but treatment was initiated very early. Study quality was low and there was some evidence of publication bias. Delay to treatment, comorbidity, and blinded outcome assessment appeared to predict neurobehavioral outcome on multi-variate meta-regression. Therapeutic hypothermia appears to be an efficacious treatment in experimental TBI, which differs from the clinical evidence. The pre-clinical literature showed limitations in quality and design and these both appeared to affect neurobehavioral experiment outcome. These should be acknowledged when designing and interpreting pre-clinical TBI studies in the future.
1gq9wy32 There is an urgent need to provide evidence-based well-being and mental health support for front-line clinical staff managing the COVID-19 pandemic who are at risk of moral injury and mental illness. We describe the evidence base for a tiered model of care, and practical steps on its implementation.
1h0dhkea PURPOSE OF REVIEW Whereas there is clear evidence for improved survival with cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and defibrillation during cardiac arrest management, there is today lacking evidence that any of the recommended and used drugs lead to any long-term benefit for the patients. In this review, we try to discuss our current view on why advanced life support (ALS) today can be performed without the use of drugs, and instead gain all focus on improving the tasks we know improve survival: CPR and defibrillation. RECENT FINDINGS Previous and recent cardiac arrest drug studies have been reviewed. These are mostly consisting of retrospective register data, some experimental data and a few new randomized trials. The alternative drug-free ALS concept is also discussed with relevant studies. SUMMARY There is currently no evidence to support any specific drugs during cardiac arrest. Good-quality CPR, early defibrillation and goal-directed postresuscitation care is more important. Healthcare systems should not prioritize implementation of unproven drugs before good quality of care can be documented. More drug studies are indeed required, and future research needs to incorporate better diagnostic tools to test more specific and tailored therapies that account for underlying causes and individual responsiveness.
1hcp36cw BACKGROUND: Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) is an important complication of allogeneic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT). High dose glucocorticosteroids, are currently recommended as first-line treatment for grade II-IV aGVHD resulting in overall complete responses (CR) in 40%-50% of patients. No standard second-line regimen has been established. Different options have been reported, including anti-TNFα antibodies. METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the outcome of 15 patients with steroid-refractory (SR) aGVHD treated with etanercept at our institution. Patients were transplanted for a hematological malignancy and received either a myeloablative or a non-myeloablative conditioning regimen. Prophylaxis of GVHD consisted of cyclosporin A and mycophenolic acid. RESULTS: Acute GVHD was diagnosed at a median of 61 days post-transplantation. All patients had grade III aGVHD of the gut. Second-line treatment with etanercept was started at a median of 13 days after initiation of first-line therapy. Overall response rate was 53%, with CR in 3 patients and PR in 5 patients. Median overall survival after initiation of treatment with etanercept was 66 days (range 5–267) for the entire group. Median overall survival was 99 days (range 47–267 days) for responders and 17 days (range 5–66 days) for non-responders (p<0.01). Nevertheless, all patients died. Causes of death were progressive GVHD in 7 patients (47%), infection in 6 patients (40%), cardiac death in 1 patient (6.7%) and relapse in 1 patient (6,7%). CONCLUSION: Second-line treatment with etanercept does induce responses in SR-aGVHD of the gut but appears to be associated with poor long-term survival even in responding patients.
1hfxju5f Abstract Coronavirus Disease 19 is a global healthcare emergency with high lethality rate. Relevant inflammatory cytokine storm is associated with severity of disease and IL1 inhibition is a cornerstone treatment for hyperinflammatory diseases. We present here the case of a patient with critical COVID-19 successfully treated with IL-1 receptor antagonist (anakinra).
1hgng2i1 Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) is a demyelinating disease that affects all ages, except children less than 2 years. It occurs during the course of various infections, particularly the acute exanthematous diseases of childhood (measles, rubella, chickenpox, and smallpox immunization), other common viral infections (i.e., Epstein-Barr virus, adenovirus, cytomegalovirus, influenza, rhinoviruses, coronaviruses), and following vaccination against smallpox, measles, and rabies. The clinical features are the same regardless of the inciting event. The symptoms develop days to weeks after the onset of the predisposing cause. The symptoms and signs of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis are related to the portion of the central nervous system (CNS) that is most severely damaged. Death occurs in 20%–30%. There are neurological deficits in survivors.
1hr9idks BACKGROUND Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a frequent complication in preterm infants, and the identification of early markers of renal hypoperfusion is a chief challenge in neonatal intensive care units. OBJECTIVES To describe the association between early markers of cardiovascular function and renal perfusion with AKI occurrence in a cohort of preterm infants < 32 weeks' gestation. METHODS 128 infants were prospectively included from birth to discharge. During the first day of life, we assessed cardiovascular function, systemic and organ blood flow by Doppler ultrasound, and monitored cerebral and renal regional oxygen saturation (rSO2) using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). These measures were analyzed in relation to developing AKI and serum creatinine (SCr) peak from day 2 to 7 of life. RESULTS 12 of 128 infants presented with AKI (9.4%). SCr peak was 155.3 ± 30.2 µmol/L in infants with AKI versus 82.0 ± 16.5 in non-AKI infants (p < 0.001). Among all measures of cardiovascular function and renal perfusion, low mean cerebral and renal rSO2 during the first day of life and a low resistive index at renal artery Doppler were significantly associated with developing AKI. After adjustment for possible confounding factors, low renal rSO2 on the first day of life remained associated with a high SCr peak from day 2 to 7 of life. CONCLUSION Low renal rSO2 values during the first day of life correlate with developing AKI in preterm infants < 32 weeks' gestation. NIRS monitoring of renal function during adaptation seems promising, and its very early use after birth to detect kidney hemodynamic dysfunction deserves further investigations.
1i5arpf8 Abstract The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) associated disease (COVID-19) outbreak seriously challenges globally all health care systems and professionals. Expert projections estimate that despite social distancing and lockdown being practiced, we have yet to feel the full impact of COVID-19. In this manuscript we provide guidance to prepare for the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on breast cancer patients and advise on how to triage, prioritize and organize diagnostic procedures, surgical, radiation and medical treatments.
1ih3dtcb The lockdown declared to prevent the spread of Covid 19 in India created unforeseen problems, including severe alcohol withdrawal symptoms and the need to manage them. The state of Kerala in India saw suicide deaths by six affected individuals, prompting the state government to instruct government doctors to prescribe alcohol to addicts. The local medical association approached the courts against this. These events raise interesting ethical issues discussed here. Keywords: alcohol withdrawal, prescribing alcohol, Covid 19, ethics of alcohol prescription.
1ihm08gq The COVID-19 pandemic has revealed starkly and publicly the close interconnections between social and economic inequality, health equity, and population health. To better understand what social policies would best promote population health, economic recovery, and preparedness for future pandemics, we must look both upstream and abroad for inspiration. In this essay, I argue for a suite of near-term and longer-term interventions, including universal health insurance and paid sick leave, upgraded wage insurance policies, tax reform, investments in parental leave, child care, and education, and upgraded government record systems. Policies that equalize the distribution of the social determinants of health and promote social solidarity will also improve population health and economic performance and allow us to confront future pandemics more successfully.
1intktsf The COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection is spreading at an alarming rate and has created an unprecedented health emergency around the globe. There is no effective vaccine or approved drug treatment against COVID-19 and other pathogenic coronaviruses. The development of antiviral agents is an urgent priority. Biochemical events critical to the coronavirus replication cycle provided a number of attractive targets for drug development. These include, spike protein for binding to host cell-surface receptors, proteolytic enzymes that are essential for processing polyproteins into mature viruses, and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase for RNA replication. There has been a lot of ground work for drug discovery and development against these targets. Also, high-throughput screening efforts have led to the identification of diverse lead structures, including natural product-derived molecules. This review highlights past and present drug discovery and medicinal-chemistry approaches against SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV and COVID-19 targets. The review hopes to stimulate further research and will be a useful guide to the development of effective therapies against COVID-19 and other pathogenic coronaviruses.
1ipv043n This paper provides an early assessment of the implications of the COVID‐19 pandemic for food supply chains and supply chain resilience. The effects of demand‐side shocks on food supply chains are discussed, including consumer panic buying behaviors with respect to key items, and the sudden change in consumption patterns away from the food service sector to meals prepared and consumed at home. Potential supply‐side disruptions to food supply chains are assessed, including labor shortages, disruptions to transportation networks, and “thickening” of the Canada–U.S. border with respect to the movement of goods. Finally, the paper considers whether the COVID‐19 pandemic will have longer‐lasting effects on the nature of food supply chains, including the growth of the online grocery delivery sector, and the extent to which consumers will prioritize “local” food supply chains.
1j8ethnx Summary The rapid improvements in DNA synthesis technology hold the potential to revolutionize biosciences in the near future. Traditional genetic engineering methods are template dependent and make extensive but laborious use of site-directed mutagenesis to explore the impact of small variations on an existing sequence “theme.” De novo gene and genome synthesis frees the investigator from the restrictions of the pre-existing template and allows for the rational design of any conceivable new sequence theme. Viruses, being among the simplest replicating entities, have been at the forefront of the advancing biosciences since the dawn of molecular biology. Viral genomes, especially those of RNA viruses, are relatively short, often less than 10,000 bases long, making them amenable to whole genome synthesis with the currently available technology. For this reason viruses are once again poised to lead the way in the budding field of synthetic biology—for better or worse.
1jpf9kc4 Coronavirus disease 2019 is an infectious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. It has taken a toll of lots of lives since its outbreak. Infection prevention at present is an appropriate control measure in addition to other measure like hand hygiene and personal protective equipment (PPE). In our country with a large population, supplying PPE to all the health care workers of all hospitals definitely is an economic burden. Hence we have come up with an economic and simple solution for face mask.
1k168vv0 In the fight against COVID-19, frontline health workers have been vital to keeping the pandemic at bay, but recognition of individual professions' efforts have been inconsistent at all levels Pharmacists around the world have continued to provide direct patient care and perform frontline duties for their communities during this pandemic, but are often relegated to the background and overlooked when frontline workers are heralded Community pharmacists are the most accessible healthcare practitioners, which is further proven during the pandemic as they continued to provide direct patient care despite restrictions imposed by the government due to the pandemic Due to the inaccessibility of other healthcare practitioners during this time, community pharmacists have reduced the burden on the healthcare system by diverting the influx of patients away from hospitals through triaging and screening patients Community pharmacists have played various roles in supporting the healthcare system during COVID-19: delivering medications to patients, educating patients on telehealth services, assessing patients for renewal of chronic medications, performing consultations on minor ailments, clarifying misconceptions about COVID-19 treatments, and contributing to COVID-19 screening Alongside ICU nurses, physicians, and respiratory therapists, hospital pharmacists have been part of the COVID-19 efforts and their roles include management of drug shortages, development of treatment protocols, participation of patient rounds, interpretation of lab results for COVID-19, participant recruitment for clinical trials, exploration of new drugs, medication management advice, and antimicrobial stewardship Further support from pharmacists will be needed once a vaccine is launched in order to reach population-wide coverage Amid COVID-19, pharmacists have not stopped working as frontline workers and they should be recognized as such
1k3t6bkm OBJECTIVE To describe the perioperative course and medium-term anatomic and functional outcomes of the transobturator-infracoccygeal hammock for posthysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse repair. METHODS A prospective consecutive series of 52 women with a stage 2 vaginal vault prolapse or higher that occurred after total hysterectomy who underwent surgery between 2003 and 2007. Principal outcome measures were anatomic cure (stage 1 or lower) and impact on quality of life measured using the pelvic floor distress inventory (PFDI) and pelvic floor impact self-reported questionnaire (PFIQ). Anatomical results were analyzed using chi(2) and Fisher exact tests, and PFDI and PFIQ scores were analyzed using the Wilcoxon test. RESULTS With a median follow-up of 36months, the anatomic cure rate was 96%. Significant improvements were noted in POPQ-S scores after surgery (P<0.05). Stress urinary incontinence was cured in 73% of patients and improved in 15% of patients. The PFDI and PFIQ scores were improved (P<0.05). One mesh extrusion was observed. The rates of mesh contraction and new cases of dyspareunia were 31% and 13%, respectively. CONCLUSION The transvaginal mesh hammock represents a useful treatment for recurrent and major vaginal vault prolapse, and has few complications.
1khqgsrt The outbreak of the novel coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) causing COVID-19 was first reported in late December 2019. Many patients with psoriasis on biologic therapy have asked their medical providers about the effect of biologics on COVID-19. However, it is currently unknown how biologic therapy for psoriasis might impact patients with psoriasis and COVID-19. In this article, we report on the clinical course of two patients on biologic medication for psoriasis who developed COVID-19 and successfully recovered from SARS-CoV-2 infection. Both patients presented with fever and respiratory symptoms, but neither patient required hospitalization. While more research is needed, it is reassuring to know that successful recovery is possible after COVID-19 infection in patients on biologic therapy for psoriasis.
1kvsu3ya Angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2) is a homologue of angiotensin-I converting enzyme (ACE), the central enzyme of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). ACE2 is abundant in human kidney and heart and has been implicated in renal and cardiac function through its ability to hydrolyze Angiotensin II. Although ACE2 and ACE are both type I integral membrane proteins and share 61% protein sequence similarity, they display distinct modes of enzyme action and tissue distribution. This study characterized ACE2 at the plasma membrane of non-polarized Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCKII) epithelial cells and compared its cellular localization to its related enzyme, ACE, using indirect immunofluorescence, cell-surface biotinylation, Western analysis, and enzyme activity assays. This study shows ACE2 and ACE are both cell-surface proteins distributed evenly to detergent-soluble regions of the plasma membrane in CHO cells. However, in polarized MDCKII cells under steady-state conditions the two enzymes are differentially expressed. ACE2 is localized predominantly to the apical surface ( approximately 92%) where it is proteolytically cleaved within its ectodomain to release a soluble form. Comparatively, ACE is present on both the apical ( approximately 55%) and basolateral membranes ( approximately 45%) where it is also secreted but differentially; the ectodomain cleavage of ACE is 2.5-fold greater from the apical surface than the basolateral surface. These studies suggest that both ACE2 and ACE are ectoenzymes that have distinct localization and secretion patterns that determine their role on the cell surface in kidney epithelium and in urine.
1l89qtfd A lack of N95 respirators during the COVID-19 crisis has placed healthcare workers at risk. It is important for any N95 reuse strategy to determine the effects that proposed protocols would have on the physical functioning of the mask, as well as the practical aspects of implementation. Here we propose and implement a method of heating N95 respirators with moisture (85{degrees}C, 60-85% humidity). We test both mask filtration efficiency and fit to validate this process. Our tests focus on the 3M 1860 and 3M 8210 Plus N95 models. After five cycles of the heating procedure, both respirators pass quantitative fit testing (score of >100) and show no degradation of mask filtration efficiency. We also test the Chen Heng V9501 KN95 and HKYQ N95 finding no degradation of mask filtration efficiency, however even for unheated masks these scored <50 for every fit test. The heating method presented here is scalable from individual masks to over a thousand a day with a single industrial convection oven, making this method practical for local application inside health-care facilities.
1le537yd BACKGROUND: During the 2015 outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), six different commercial MERS-CoV RNA detection kits based on real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) were available in Korea. We performed analytical and clinical validations of these kits. METHODS: PowerChek (Kogene Biotech, Korea), DiaPlexQ (SolGent, Korea), Anyplex (Seegene, Korea), AccuPower (Bioneer, Korea), LightMix (Roche Molecular Diagnostics, Switzerland), and UltraFast kits (Nanobiosys, Korea) were evaluated. Limits of detection (LOD) with 95% probability values were estimated by testing 16 replicates of upstream of the envelope gene (upE) and open reading frame 1a (ORF1a) RNA transcripts. Specificity was estimated by using 28 nasopharyngeal swabs that were positive for other respiratory viruses. Clinical sensitivity was evaluated by using 18 lower respiratory specimens. The sensitivity test panel and the high inhibition panel were composed of nine specimens each, including eight and six specimens that were positive for MERS-CoV, respectively. RESULTS: The LODs for upE ranged from 21.88 to 263.03 copies/reaction, and those for ORF1a ranged from 6.92 to 128.82 copies/reaction. No cross-reactivity with other respiratory viruses was found. All six kits correctly identified 8 of 8 (100%) positive clinical specimens. Based on results from the high inhibition panel, PowerChek and AccuPower were the least sensitive to the presence of PCR inhibition. CONCLUSIONS: The overall sensitivity and specificity of all six assay systems were sufficient for diagnosing MERS-CoV infection. However, the analytical sensitivity and detection ability in specimens with PCR inhibition could be improved with the use of appropriate internal controls.
1lg2203q BACKGROUND: As of February 25, 2019, 875 cases of Ebola virus disease (EVD) were reported in North Kivu and Ituri Provinces, Democratic Republic of Congo. Since the beginning of October 2018, the outbreak has largely shifted into regions in which active armed conflict has occurred, and in which EVD cases and their contacts have been difficult for health workers to reach. We used available data on the current outbreak, with case-count time series from prior outbreaks, to project the short-term and long-term course of the outbreak. METHODS: For short- and long-term projections, we modeled Ebola virus transmission using a stochastic branching process that assumes gradually quenching transmission rates estimated from past EVD outbreaks, with outbreak trajectories conditioned on agreement with the course of the current outbreak, and with multiple levels of vaccination coverage. We used two regression models to estimate similar projection periods. Short- and long-term projections were estimated using negative binomial autoregression and Theil-Sen regression, respectively. We also used Gott’s rule to estimate a baseline minimum-information projection. We then constructed an ensemble of forecasts to be compared and recorded for future evaluation against final outcomes. From August 20, 2018 to February 25, 2019, short-term model projections were validated against known case counts. RESULTS: During validation of short-term projections, from one week to four weeks, we found models consistently scored higher on shorter-term forecasts. Based on case counts as of February 25, the stochastic model projected a median case count of 933 cases by February 18 (95% prediction interval: 872–1054) and 955 cases by March 4 (95% prediction interval: 874–1105), while the auto-regression model projects median case counts of 889 (95% prediction interval: 876–933) and 898 (95% prediction interval: 877–983) cases for those dates, respectively. Projected median final counts range from 953 to 1,749. Although the outbreak is already larger than all past Ebola outbreaks other than the 2013–2016 outbreak of over 26,000 cases, our models do not project that it is likely to grow to that scale. The stochastic model estimates that vaccination coverage in this outbreak is lower than reported in its trial setting in Sierra Leone. CONCLUSIONS: Our projections are concentrated in a range up to about 300 cases beyond those already reported. While a catastrophic outbreak is not projected, it is not ruled out, and prevention and vigilance are warranted. Prospective validation of our models in real time allowed us to generate more accurate short-term forecasts, and this process may prove useful for future real-time short-term forecasting. We estimate that transmission rates are higher than would be seen under target levels of 62% coverage due to contact tracing and vaccination, and this model estimate may offer a surrogate indicator for the outbreak response challenges.
1ljk9k2o This study evaluated the influence of two different occlusal indicators (articulating papers of 40μm and 200μm) on muscular activity of the temporalis anterior (TA) and superficial masseter (MS) during maximum voluntary clenches (MVC), using surface electromyography (SEMG). It was hypothesized that an articulating paper positioned between dental arches during MVC elicits a different muscular activity compared with the occlusion on natural dentition (without the occlusal indicator). 30 healthy adult subjects with a complete, natural dentition were recruited; SEMG activity was recorded in the following experimental conditions: MVC with cotton rolls for standardization purposes; MVC on natural dentition; MVC onto the 40μm or 200μm paper indicator positioned on right or left side of the dental arch. Percentage Overlapping Coefficient (POC; separate values obtained for TA and MS), antero-posterior coefficient (APC) and total muscle activities (IMP) were the analyzed SEMG parameters. The use of an occlusal indicator statistically changed POC_TA, POC_MS and IMP median values (p<0.05). Both 40μm and 200μm occlusal papers did not significantly affect APC values (P=0.86). A pronounced asymmetric muscular activity has been recorded with the introduction of an interocclusal media. All indices of muscular activity did not differ between sexes (Kruskal Wallis test, P>0.05). In conclusion, the examined articulating papers affected two specific SEMG parameters (POC and IMP); the recorded muscular activity with the occlusal indicator varied regardless left or right side positioning, and independently from tested paper thicknesses.
1lkrz70h PURPOSE The pragmatic utility method of concept analysis was used to explore the usefulness of the concept self-care self-efficacy. DATA SOURCES Empirical studies across disciplines published between 1996 and 2015 were used as data. DATA SYNTHESIS A data matrix was developed. Analytical questions and responses were derived from the data to understand patterns, develop new knowledge and achieve synthesis. CONCLUSION Usefulness of the concept is contingent on how it is defined and measured. Self-care self-efficacy is associated with performance of self-care activities and positive health outcomes in diverse populations. IMPLICATIONS Research can guide development of targeted interventions to increase patients' self-care self-efficacy, thus reducing costs, and assisting people to achieve optimal health.
1lm8tzbc Abstract Tissues from Australian brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) that had been experimentally infected with wobbly possum disease (WPD) virus (WPDV) were examined to elucidate pathogenesis of WPDV infection. Mononuclear inflammatory cell infiltrates were present in livers, kidneys, salivary glands and brains of WPD-affected possums. Specific staining was detected by immunohistochemistry within macrophages in the livers and kidneys, and undefined cell types in the brains. The highest viral RNA load was found in macrophage-rich tissues. The detection of viral RNA in the salivary gland, serum, kidney, bladder and urine is compatible with transmission via close physical contact during encounters such as fighting or grooming, or by contact with an environment that has been contaminated with saliva or urine. Levels of viral RNA remained high in all tissues tested throughout the study, suggesting that on-going virus replication and evasion of the immune responses may be important in the pathogenesis of disease.
1lsosc2i BACKGROUND Emergence delirium (ED) is an acute change in cognition after general anesthesia (GA) occurring in operative room, recovery room or in postanesthesia care. The automated propofol-remifentanil titration by Bispectral Index (BIS) (AutoTIVA) avoids period of deep (BIS<40) anesthesia and could potentially decrease the ED. The aim of this study was to evaluate ED in surgical patients under AutoTIVA, manual titration of propofol-remifentanil (ManualTIVA) or volatile BIS-guided GA. Moreover, we aimed to evaluate age-related postoperative Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) changes. METHODS One hundred and thirty-two adult patients scheduled for elective urologic surgery were randomized in: AutoTIVA, desflurane (DES), sevoflurane (SEVO), ManualTIVA anesthesia. The MMSE was performed before GA and 15 minutes after tracheal extubation. RESULTS The percentage of BIS 40-60 was significantly higher in the AutoTIVA compared to DES, SEVO and ManualTIVA (87% vs. 78 %, 58%, 39%, respectively; P≤0.001). The percentage of BIS<40 was significantly lower in AutoTIVA than in the other groups (P<0.001). No difference in hemodynamics was found among groups. Postoperative MMSE scores were similar to baseline in the AutoTIVA (26 [24-28] vs. 26 [23-28]) while they markedly decreased in all other groups (P<0.001). Postoperative MMSE decreased at any age. None experienced awareness was recorded. CONCLUSIONS Our results suggest that patients treated with AutoTIVA performed better in the cognitive test compared to the other groups receiving manual target-controlled GA due to a higher adequate level of anesthesia measured by BIS. Cognitive tests should be performed to test ED in all patients undergoing GA.
1m1woscb Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins are potent antiviral factors shown to restrict the infection of many enveloped viruses, including HIV. Here we report cloning and characterization of a panel of nonhuman primate IFITMs. We show that, similar to human IFITM, nonhuman primate IFITM proteins inhibit HIV and other primate lentiviruses. While some nonhuman primate IFITM proteins are more potent than human counterparts to inhibit HIV-1, they are generally not effective against HIV-2 similar to that of human IFITMs. Notably, depending on SIV strains and also IFITM species tested, nonhuman primate IFITM proteins exhibit distinct activities against SIVs; no correlation was found to support the notion that IFITM proteins are most active in non-natural primate hosts. Consistent with our recent findings for human IFITMs, nonhuman primate IFITM proteins interact with HIV-1 Env and strongly act in viral producer cells to impair viral infectivity and block cell-to-cell transmission. Accordingly, knockdown of primate IFITM3 increases HIV-1 replication in nohuman primate cells. Interestingly, analysis of DNA sequences of human and nonhuman primate IFITMs suggest that IFITM proteins have been undergoing purifying selection, rather than positive selection typical for cellular restriction factors. Overall, our study reveals some new and unexpected features of IFITMs in restricting primate lentiviruses, which enhances our understanding of virus-host interaction and AIDS pathogenesis.
1m2k6l66 We are honored to have been invited to write this piece entitled, "How to get the most out of your trainees in robotic thoracic surgery". Perhaps a better question is "How can we optimally coach and inspire each resident and/or fellow to maximize their value and potential as people, physicians and surgeons during the span of their career?". As surgeons, we must recognize some of the subtle differences in alignment between ourselves and our trainees, appreciate the value of the trainee within our profession, understand that there is variability to the coaching style that each trainee best responds to, and acknowledge that the success of the people we train-which may be our only true legacy-depends on how we engage and inspire them.
1mjmttec Viruses use cellular machinery to enter and infect cells. In this study we address the cell entry mechanisms of nonenveloped adenoviruses (Ads). We show that protein VI, an internal capsid protein, is rapidly exposed after cell surface attachment and internalization and remains partially associated with the capsid during intracellular transport. We found that a PPxY motif within protein VI recruits Nedd4 E3 ubiquitin ligases to bind and ubiquitylate protein VI. We further show that this PPxY motif is involved in rapid, microtubule-dependent intracellular movement of protein VI. Ads with a mutated PPxY motif can efficiently escape endosomes but are defective in microtubule-dependent trafficking toward the nucleus. Likewise, depletion of Nedd4 ligases attenuates nuclear accumulation of incoming Ad particles and infection. Our data provide the first evidence that virus-encoded PPxY motifs are required during virus entry, which may be of significance for several other pathogens.
1mqsjexn BACKGROUND Emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) from the winter of 2002 to the spring of 2003 has caused a serious threat to public health. METHODS To evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the inactivated SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) vaccine, 36 subjects received two doses of 16 SARS-CoV units (SU) or 32 SU inactivated SARS-CoV vaccine, or placebo control. RESULTS On day 42, the seroconversion reached 100% for both vaccine groups. On day 56, 100% of participants in the group receiving 16 SU and 91.1% in the group receiving 32 SU had seroconverted. The geometric mean titre of neutralizing antibody peaked 2 weeks after the second vaccination, but decreased 4 weeks later. CONCLUSION The inactivated vaccine was safe and well tolerated and can elicit SARS-CoV-specific neutralizing antibodies.
1mrj6nb3 Aging increases the risk of various diseases. The main goal of aging research is to find therapies that attenuate aging and alleviate aging-related diseases. In this study, we screened a natural product library for geroprotective compounds using Werner syndrome (WS) human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs), a premature aging model that we recently established. Ten candidate compounds were identified and quercetin was investigated in detail due to its leading effects. Mechanistic studies revealed that quercetin alleviated senescence via the enhancement of cell proliferation and restoration of heterochromatin architecture in WS hMSCs. RNA-sequencing analysis revealed the transcriptional commonalities and differences in the geroprotective effects by quercetin and Vitamin C. Besides WS hMSCs, quercetin also attenuated cellular senescence in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) and physiological-aging hMSCs. Taken together, our study identifies quercetin as a geroprotective agent against accelerated and natural aging in hMSCs, providing a potential therapeutic intervention for treating age-associated disorders. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s13238-018-0567-y) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
1mrsvg3b Businesses planning for the post-pandemic world are looking for innovative ways to protect the health and welfare of their employees and customers. Wireless technologies can play a key role in assisting contact tracing to quickly halt a local infection outbreak and prevent further spread. In this work, we present a wearable proximity and exposure notification solution based on a smartwatch that also promotes safe physical distancing in business, hospitality, or recreational facilities. Our proximity-based privacy-preserving contact tracing (P$^3$CT) leverages the Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) technology for reliable proximity sensing, and an ambient signature protocol for preserving identity. Proximity sensing exploits the received signal strength (RSS) to detect the user's interaction and thus classifying them into low- or high-risk with respect to a patient diagnosed with an infectious disease. More precisely, a user is notified of their exposure based on their interactions, in terms of distance and time, with a patient. Our privacy-preserving protocol uses the ambient signatures to ensure that users' identities be anonymized. We demonstrate the feasibility of our proposed solution through extensive experimentation.
1mxgmhik PURPOSE: Accurately forecasting the occurrence of future covid-19-related cases across relaxed (Sweden) and stringent (USA and Canada) policy contexts has a renewed sense of urgency. Moreover, there is a need for a multidimensional county-level approach to monitor the second wave of covid-19 in the USA. METHOD: We use an artificial intelligence framework based on timeline of policy interventions that triangulated results based on the three approaches-Bayesian susceptible-infected-recovered (SIR), Kalman filter, and machine learning. RESULTS: Our findings suggest three important insights. First, the effective growth rate of covid-19 infections dropped in response to the approximate dates of key policy interventions. We find that the change points for spreading rates approximately coincide with the timelines of policy interventions across respective countries. Second, forecasted trend until mid-June in the USA was downward trending, stable, and linear. Sweden is likely to be heading in the other direction. That is, Sweden's forecasted trend until mid-June appears to be non-linear and upward trending. Canada appears to fall somewhere in the middle-the trend for the same period is flat. Third, a Kalman filter based robustness check indicates that by mid-June the USA will likely have close to two million virus cases, while Sweden will likely have over 44,000 covid-19 cases. CONCLUSION: We show that drop in effective growth rate of covid-19 infections was sharper in the case of stringent policies (USA and Canada) but was more gradual in the case of relaxed policy (Sweden). Our study exhorts policy makers to take these results into account as they consider the implications of relaxing lockdown measures.
1n1i38lo OBJECTIVE: To characterise the clinical features of patients admitted to hospital with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) in the United Kingdom during the growth phase of the first wave of this outbreak who were enrolled in the International Severe Acute Respiratory and emerging Infections Consortium (ISARIC) World Health Organization (WHO) Clinical Characterisation Protocol UK (CCP-UK) study, and to explore risk factors associated with mortality in hospital. DESIGN: Prospective observational cohort study with rapid data gathering and near real time analysis. SETTING: 208 acute care hospitals in England, Wales, and Scotland between 6 February and 19 April 2020. A case report form developed by ISARIC and WHO was used to collect clinical data. A minimal follow-up time of two weeks (to 3 May 2020) allowed most patients to complete their hospital admission. PARTICIPANTS: 20 133 hospital inpatients with covid-19. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Admission to critical care (high dependency unit or intensive care unit) and mortality in hospital. RESULTS: The median age of patients admitted to hospital with covid-19, or with a diagnosis of covid-19 made in hospital, was 73 years (interquartile range 58-82, range 0-104). More men were admitted than women (men 60%, n=12 068; women 40%, n=8065). The median duration of symptoms before admission was 4 days (interquartile range 1-8). The commonest comorbidities were chronic cardiac disease (31%, 5469/17 702), uncomplicated diabetes (21%, 3650/17 599), non-asthmatic chronic pulmonary disease (18%, 3128/17 634), and chronic kidney disease (16%, 2830/17 506); 23% (4161/18 525) had no reported major comorbidity. Overall, 41% (8199/20 133) of patients were discharged alive, 26% (5165/20 133) died, and 34% (6769/20 133) continued to receive care at the reporting date. 17% (3001/18 183) required admission to high dependency or intensive care units; of these, 28% (826/3001) were discharged alive, 32% (958/3001) died, and 41% (1217/3001) continued to receive care at the reporting date. Of those receiving mechanical ventilation, 17% (276/1658) were discharged alive, 37% (618/1658) died, and 46% (764/1658) remained in hospital. Increasing age, male sex, and comorbidities including chronic cardiac disease, non-asthmatic chronic pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease, liver disease and obesity were associated with higher mortality in hospital. CONCLUSIONS: ISARIC WHO CCP-UK is a large prospective cohort study of patients in hospital with covid-19. The study continues to enrol at the time of this report. In study participants, mortality was high, independent risk factors were increasing age, male sex, and chronic comorbidity, including obesity. This study has shown the importance of pandemic preparedness and the need to maintain readiness to launch research studies in response to outbreaks. STUDY REGISTRATION: ISRCTN66726260.
1n5syems OBJECTIVE: To analyze the diagnosis and treatment of patients with chronic renal failure complicated with novel coronavirus pneumonia, and to evaluate the effect of blood purification technology on the treatment and prognosis of such patients. METHODS: Two COVID-19 cases undergoing hemodialysis with chronic renal failure were retrospectively analysed in our hospital. RESULTS: Two COVID-19 patients were admitted to hospital due to cough, with or without fever. Laboratory tests showed decreased lymphocyte count, elevated PCT, IL-10, IL-6, TNF-&#945;, IL-2R, high-sensitivity cardiac troponin I, NT-proBNP, creatinine, and urea nitrogen. Chest CT scan showed multiple blurred plaques and patchy shadows in both patients. Two patients received continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration (CVVHDF) every other day for 4-6 h everytime, in addition to the standard treatment. After CVVHDF, not only cytokines were reduced, but also liver function and cardiac function significantly improved. Both patients did not develop severe pneumonia. They were discharged on March 1, 2020 when meeting the discharge criteria. CONCLUSION: Two COVID-19 patients on maintenance hemodialysis discharged after a month of hospitalization. The removal of cytokines through blood purification technology may be beneficial for the recovery of COVID-19 patients.
1n6d1gco BACKGROUND: There are no established effective treatments for COVID-19. While novel drugs are being developed, azithromycin has been identified as a candidate treatment in the interim. AIM: To review the evidence for the effectiveness and safety of azithromycin in treating COVID-19. DESIGN & SETTING: A rapid review of the literature was conducted. METHOD: Electronic searches were conducted on 16 April 2020 of PubMed, TRIP, EPPI COVID Living Map, MedRxiv, GoogleScholar, and Google. In vivo and in vitro studies were included assessing the safety and effectiveness of azithromycin for treatment of COVID-19, and/or the activity of azithromycin against SARS-CoV-2. In vivo studies needed to include a comparator group. RESULTS: Three studies were identified, two in vitro and one in vivo, which were suitable for inclusion. All three were published as pre-prints. The in vitro studies revealed conflicting results, with one finding anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity for azithromycin alone, while the other found activity against SARS-CoV-2 only when azithromycin was combined with hydroxychloroquine. A small trial of 36 patients, with high risk of bias, found superior viral clearance in patients with COVID-19 treated with azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine combined, compared with hydroxychloroquine alone. CONCLUSION: There is no evidence to support the use of azithromycin for the treatment of COVID-19 outside of the context of clinical trials, unless it is used to treat bacterial super-infection. There is extremely limited evidence of a possible synergy between azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine. The adverse events profile of azithromycin in the context of COVID-19 has not yet been established. Well-conducted clinical trials are urgently needed in this area.
1nex7gr3 Abstract Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the leading cause of bronchiolitis and viral pneumonia in infants and young children worldwide. In the Middle East and Arab countries, the burden of RSV-associated hospitalizations is not well characterized. We sought to determine the burden and clinical/epidemiological characteristics of RSV hospitalization in young children in Amman, Jordan. We investigated risk factors for severity including vitamin D levels. Methods We conducted viral surveillance with clinical and demographic data in children <2 years admitted with respiratory symptoms and/or fever at the Al-Bashir Government Hospital from March16, 2010 to March 31, 2013. Nasal/throat swabs were obtained and placed into lysis buffer, and frozen at −80°C until testing by real-time RT-PCR for 11 respiratory viruses. Heel stick blood or sera samples for 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels were obtained and sent to a central laboratory for mass spectrometry. Results Of the 3168 children, >80% testing positive for one virus, with RSV the most common virus detected (44%). The RSV-associated hospitalization rate was highest in children <6 months with an annual range of 21.1–25.9 per 1000, compared to 6.0–8.0 in 6–11-month-olds and 1.6–2.5 in 12–23-month-olds. RSV-positive children compared with RSV-negative were more likely to be previously healthy without underlying medical conditions, less likely to be born prematurely, had a higher frequency of supplemental oxygen use, and had lower median vitamin D levels. Risk factors for oxygen use in RSV-positive children included underlying medical conditions, lack of breastfeeding, younger age, and higher viral load. Conclusion RSV is a major cause of illness in hospitalized Jordanian children and is associated with increased severity compared to other respiratory viruses. Children with RSV in the Middle East would benefit from future RSV vaccines and antiviral therapy.
1nnr3uj4 A young woman with factor V Leiden thrombophilia presented with headache due to thrombosis of the right transverse sinus (TS) and superior sagittal sinus. Despite appropriate anticoagulation, she experienced worsening headache, progressive neurologic deficits and spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage. Endovascular therapy was therefore undertaken. A 6 mm Solitaire FR device was deployed in the TS and withdrawn in a stepwise fashion, resulting in complete recanalization of the sinus. Her headache improved and her neurologic deficits resolved. Endovascular therapy for cerebral venous sinus thrombosis is currently recommended only for those patients with deterioration despite appropriate anticoagulation. The thrombus burden is usually high in this subset of patients, and recanalization can be challenging with currently available endovascular techniques. This is the first report of cerebral venous sinus thrombectomy with the Solitaire FR device, which may offer another option for those patients requiring endovascular treatment.
1nu44n0i BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE Computational fluid dynamics modeling is useful in the study of the hemodynamic environment of cerebral aneurysms, but patient-specific measurements of boundary conditions, such as blood flow velocity and pressure, have not been previously applied to the study of flow-diverting stents. We integrated patient-specific intravascular blood flow velocity and pressure measurements into computational models of aneurysms before and after treatment with flow-diverting stents to determine stent effects on aneurysm hemodynamics. MATERIALS AND METHODS Blood flow velocity and pressure were measured in peri-aneurysmal locations by use of an intravascular dual-sensor pressure and Doppler velocity guidewire before and after flow-diverting stent treatment of 4 unruptured cerebral aneurysms. These measurements defined inflow and outflow boundary conditions for computational models. Intra-aneurysmal flow rates, wall shear stress, and wall shear stress gradient were calculated. RESULTS Measurements of inflow velocity and outflow pressure were successful in all 4 patients. Computational models incorporating these measurements demonstrated significant reductions in intra-aneurysmal wall shear stress and wall shear stress gradient and a trend in reduced intra-aneurysmal blood flow. CONCLUSIONS Integration of intravascular dual-sensor guidewire measurements of blood flow velocity and blood pressure provided patient-specific computational models of cerebral aneurysms. Aneurysm treatment with flow-diverting stents reduces blood flow and hemodynamic shear stress in the aneurysm dome.
1nx7irye How to cite this article: Bhartiya S Current Glaucoma Practice: The Covid-19 Impact J Curr Glaucoma Pract 2020;14(1):1-2
1olrgy7r The introduction of novel approaches that cause a paradigm shift on a technological level can become the driver of innovative business models that benefit from capabilities that may have emerged. Such is the case for 5G which offers an entirely new way of delivering services that affects consumers and even more fundamentally the providers. The introduction of network slicing and the ability to provide individually configurable parts of the network to providers offer unique opportunities and solutions particularly when it comes to solving the known issue of overlapping infrastructure investments from various stakeholders. In this paper, the scenario of a single wholesale 5G network provider – the Neutral Host – operating in the City of Lucca is examined. Some remarks about the impact of the NH model on Barcelona superblock urbanistic model are also provided.
1oqmvbu1 Leukotriene B4 (LTB4) is an endogenous lipid mediator of inflammation derived from arachidonic acid by the sequential action of cytosolic phospholipase A2 and 5-lipoxygenase. This mediator was initially recognized for its involvement in the recruitment of neutrophils. However, in the last decade, LTB4 has been clearly demonstrated to play a significant role in the control of microbial infections through its ability to activate host innate defenses. In this review, we will focus on the modulator effects of LTB4 on the innate defenses and discuss its therapeutic potential against viral pathogens.
1otx70t6 The ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak, emerged in Wuhan, China in the end of 2019, has claimed more than 2600 lives as of 24 February 2020 and posed a huge threat to global public health. The Chinese government has implemented control measures including setting up special hospitals and travel restriction to mitigate the spread. We propose conceptual models for the COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan with the consideration of individual behavioural reaction and governmental actions, e.g., holiday extension, travel restriction, hospitalisation and quarantine. We employe the estimates of these two key components from the 1918 influenza pandemic in London, United Kingdom, incorporated zoonotic introductions and the emigration, and then compute future trends and the reporting ratio. The model is concise in structure, and it successfully captures the course of the COVID-19 outbreak, and thus sheds light on understanding the trends of the outbreak.
1p63ono4 This study aimed to compare two tissue oximeters, the INVOS 5100c and the Equanox 7600, in terms of their reproducibility and the interchangeability of their measures. In a randomized order, three measurements were taken at six different sites on both sides of the body in 53 healthy volunteers. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and within-subject standard deviation (Sw) were calculated for each device. The ICCs were compared using Fisher r-to-z transformation and the Sw were compared using paired-sample t-tests. We found no difference between the reproducibility of the INVOS {ICC=0.92 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.90 to 0.93]} and Equanox [ICC=0.90 (95% CI 0.88 to 0.93)] in terms of ICCs (p=0.06). However, the Equanox [Sw=1.96 (95% CI 1.91 to 2.02)] showed a better Sw than the INVOS [Sw=2.11 (95% CI 2.05 to 2.17)] (p=0.019). Also, when compared directly to stable condition, the readings produced by the two oximeters varied considerably [ICC 0.43 (95% CI 0.36 to 0.49)]. When taken individually, both tissue oximeters displayed good reproducibility, the Equanox being slightly better than the INVOS in terms of absolute reproducibility. However, when compared, the oximeters showed poor interdevices agreement. Reference values were also described.
1p941spn COVID-19 has become a pandemic. The influence of meteorological factors on the transmission and spread of COVID-19 if of interest. This study sought to examine the associations of daily average temperature (AT) and relative humidity (ARH) with the daily count of COVID-19 cases in 30 Chinese provinces (in Hubei from December 1, 2019 to February 11, 2020 and in other provinces from January 20, 2020 to Februarys 11, 2020). A Generalized Additive Model (GAM) was fitted to quantify the province-specific associations between meteorological variables and the daily cases of COVID-19 during the study periods. In the model, the 14-day exponential moving averages (EMAs) of AT and ARH, and their interaction were included with time trend and health-seeking behavior adjusted. Their spatial distributions were visualized. AT and ARH showed significantly negative associations with COVID-19 with a significant interaction between them (0.04, 95% confidence interval: 0.004-0.07) in Hubei. Every 1°C increase in the AT led to a decrease in the daily confirmed cases by 36% to 57% when ARH was in the range from 67% to 85.5%. Every 1% increase in ARH led to a decrease in the daily confirmed cases by 11% to 22% when AT was in the range from 5.04°C to 8.2°C. However, these associations were not consistent throughout Mainland China.
1po91m7b Clinical presentation of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is non‐specific and isolation of all suspected patients is difficult because of the limited availability of isolation facilities. We studied changes in haematological parameters in SARS patients using median values analysed according to the day of symptom onset. White cell (WCC), absolute neutrophil, absolute lymphocyte (ALC) and platelet counts followed a v‐shaped trend with the nadir at day 6 or 7 after symptom onset except for ALC in the ICU group that had not reached the nadir by day 12. None of our patients had a platelet count < 80 × 10(9)/l and WCC < 2 × 10(9)/l in the first 5 days of symptoms and these parameters may allow early stratification of febrile patients into likely and unlikely SARS cases to allow effective utilization of isolation facilities. On multivariate analysis, age is the only independent predictor for ICU admission.
1pt4ab8x Isoxazole, constituting an important family of five-membered heterocycles with one oxygen atom and one nitrogen atom at adjacent positions is of immense importance because of its wide spectrum of biological activities and therapeutic potential. It is, therefore, of prime importance that the development of new synthetic strategies and designing of new isoxazole derivatives should be based on the most recent knowledge emerging from the latest research. This review is an endeavor to highlight the progress in the chemistry and biological activity of isoxazole derivatives which could provide a low-height flying bird’s eye view of isoxazole derivatives to the medicinal chemists for the development of clinically viable drugs using this information.
1q09yqor BACKGROUND & AIMS Achalasia is a disorder of esophageal motility with a reported incidence of 0.5 to 1.6 per 100,000 persons per year in Europe, Asia, Canada, and America. However, estimates of incidence values have been derived predominantly from retrospective searches of databases of hospital discharge codes and personal communications with gastroenterologists, and are likely to be incorrect. We performed a cohort study based on esophageal manometry findings to determine the incidence of achalasia in South Australia. METHODS We collected data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics on the South Australian population. Cases of achalasia diagnosed by esophageal manometry were identified from the 3 adult manometry laboratory databases in South Australia. Endoscopy reports and case notes were reviewed for correlations with diagnoses. The annual incidence of achalasia in the South Australian population was calculated for the decade 2004 to 2013. Findings were standardized to those of the European Standard Population based on age. RESULTS The annual incidence of achalasia in South Australia ranged from 2.3 to 2.8 per 100,000 persons. The mean age at diagnosis was 62.1 ± 18.1 years. The incidence of achalasia increased with age (Spearman rho, 0.95; P < .01). The age-standardized incidence ranged from 2.1 (95% CI, 1.8-2.3) to 2.5 (95% CI, 2.2-2.7). CONCLUSIONS Based on a cohort study of esophageal manometry, we determined the incidence of achalasia in South Australia to be 2.3 to 2.8 per 100,000 persons and to increase with age. South Australia's relative geographic isolation and the population's access to manometry allowed for more accurate identification of cases than hospital code analyses, with a low probability of missed cases.
1q5tk1eq Digitalization has the potential to disrupt the management accounting domain. It may not only affect the digital landscape of the organization and the associated business models, but also management accounting and control practices as well as the role of the controller. This editorial discusses these developments by introducing the concept of digitalization and describing its impact on the field of management accounting and control.
1q6hs49b We discovered that the time evolution of the inverse fractional daily growth of new infections, N/dN, in the current outbreak of COVID-19 is accurately described by a universal function, namely the two-parameter Gumbel cumulative function, in all countries that we have investigated. While the two Gumbel parameters, as determined bit fits to the data, vary from country to country (and even within different regions of the same country), reflecting the diversity and efficacy of the adopted containment measures, the functional form of the evolution of N/dN appears to be universal. The result of the fit in a given region or country appears to be stable against variations of the selected time interval. This makes it possible to robustly estimate the two parameters from the data data even over relatively small time periods. In turn, this allows one to predict with large advance and well-controlled confidence levels, the time of the peak in the daily new infections, its magnitude and duration (hence the total infections), as well as the time when the daily new infections decrease to a pre-set value (e.g. less than about 2 new infections per day per million people), which can be very useful for planning the reopening of economic and social activities. We use this formalism to predict and compare these key features of the evolution of the COVID-19 disease in a number of countries and provide a quantitative assessment of the degree of success in in their efforts to countain the outbreak.
1qzgzzo5 INTRODUCTION In the last decade, video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) lobectomy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has had a major effect on thoracic surgery. Retrospective series have reported benefits of VATS when compared with open thoracotomy in terms of postoperative pain, postoperative complications and length of hospital stay. However, no large randomised control trial has been conducted to assess the reality of the potential benefits of VATS lobectomy or its medicoeconomic impact. METHODS AND ANALYSIS The French National Institute of Health funded Lungsco01 to determine whether VATS for lobectomy is superior to open thoracotomy for the treatment of NSCLC in terms of economic cost to society. This trial will also include an analysis of postoperative outcomes, the length of hospital stay, the quality of life, long-term survival and locoregional recurrence. The study design is a two-arm parallel randomised controlled trial comparing VATS lobectomy with lobectomy using thoracotomy for the treatment of NSCLC. Patients will be eligible if they have proven or suspected lung cancer which could be treated by lobectomy. Patients will be randomised via an independent service. All patients will be monitored according to standard thoracic surgical practices. All patients will be evaluated at day 1, day 30, month 3, month 6, month 12 and then every year for 2 years thereafter. The recruitment target is 600 patients. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION The protocol has been approved by the French National Research Ethics Committee (CPP Est I: 09/06/2015) and the French Medicines Agency (09/06/2015). Results will be presented at national and international meetings and conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER NCT02502318.
1r20hl2b The respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) fusion (F) glycoprotein is a major target of neutralizing antibodies arising from natural infection, and antibodies that specifically bind to the prefusion conformation of RSV F generally demonstrate the greatest neutralization potency. Prefusion-stabilized RSV F variants have been engineered as vaccine antigens, but crystal structures of these variants have revealed conformational differences in a key antigenic site located at the apex of the trimer, referred to as antigenic site Ø. Currently, it is unclear if flexibility in this region is an inherent property of prefusion RSV F or if it is related to inadequate stabilization of site Ø in the engineered variants. Therefore, we set out to investigate the conformational flexibility of antigenic site Ø, as well as the ability of the human immune system to recognize alternative conformations of this site, by determining crystal structures of prefusion RSV F bound to neutralizing human-derived antibodies AM22 and RSD5. Both antibodies bound with high affinity and were specific for the prefusion conformation of RSV F. Crystal structures of the complexes revealed that the antibodies recognized distinct conformations of antigenic site Ø, each diverging at a conserved proline residue located in the middle of an α-helix. These data suggest that antigenic site Ø exists as an ensemble of conformations, with individual antibodies recognizing discrete states. Collectively, these results have implications for the refolding of pneumovirus and paramyxovirus fusion proteins and should inform development of prefusion-stabilized RSV F vaccine candidates.
1r2ord7w Blood-engorged mosquitoes were collected at poultry farms during an outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza in Central Thailand during October 2005. These mosquitoes tested positive for H5N1 virus by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Results were confirmed by limited sequencing of the H5 and N1 segments. Infection and replication of this virus in the C6/36 mosquito cell line was confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. However, transmission by mosquitoes was not evaluated, and further research is needed. Collecting and testing mosquitoes engorged with the blood of domestic or wild animals could be a valuable tool for veterinary and public health authorities who conduct surveillance for H5N1 virus spread.
1r65yam5 BACKGROUND: Salmonid fishes are among the most widely studied model fish species but reports on systematic evaluation of reference genes in qRT-PCR studies is lacking. RESULTS: The stability of six potential reference genes was examined in eight tissues of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), to determine the most suitable genes to be used in quantitative real-time RT-PCR analyses. The relative transcription levels of genes encoding 18S rRNA, S20 ribosomal protein, β-actin, glyceraldehyde-3P-dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and two paralog genes encoding elongation factor 1A (EF1A(A )and EF1A(B)) were quantified in gills, liver, head kidney, spleen, thymus, brain, muscle, and posterior intestine in six untreated adult fish, in addition to a group of individuals that went through smoltification. Based on calculations performed with the geNorm VBA applet, which determines the most stable genes from a set of tested genes in a given cDNA sample, the ranking of the examined genes in adult Atlantic salmon was EF1A(B)>EF1A(A)>β-actin>18S rRNA>S20>GAPDH. When the same calculations were done on a total of 24 individuals from four stages in the smoltification process (presmolt, smolt, smoltified seawater and desmoltified freshwater), the gene ranking was EF1A(B)>EF1A(A)>S20>β-actin>18S rRNA>GAPDH. CONCLUSION: Overall, this work suggests that the EF1A(A )and EF1A(B )genes can be useful as reference genes in qRT-PCR examination of gene expression in the Atlantic salmon.
1rcsqyff From 29 to 31 January 2020, a total of 565 Japanese citizens were evacuated from Wuhan, China on three chartered flights. All passengers were screened upon arrival in Japan for symptoms consistent with novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection and tested for presence of the virus. Assuming that the mean detection window of the virus can be informed by the mean serial interval (estimated at 7.5 days), the ascertainment rate of infection was estimated at 9.2% (95% confidence interval: 5.0, 20.0). This indicates that the incidence of infection in Wuhan can be estimated at 20,767 infected individuals, including those with asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic infections. The infection fatality risk (IFR)—the actual risk of death among all infected individuals—is therefore 0.3% to 0.6%, which may be comparable to Asian influenza pandemic of 1957–1958.
1rm08xad INTRODUCTION This study evaluated operative outcomes and workload during single-site laparoscopy (SSL) using a magnetically anchored cautery dissector (MAGS) compared with a conventional laparoscopic hook cautery (LAP). METHODS Each cautery was used to perform six SSL porcine cholecystectomies. For MAGS, the cautery device was inserted through the umbilical incision, magnetically coupled, and deployed; two graspers and a laparoscope were used. For LAP, two percutaneous retraction sutures, one grasper, a hook cautery dissector, and a laparoscope were used. Operative outcomes, surgeon ratings (scale, 1-5; 1 = superior), and workload (scale, 1-10; 1 = superior) were evaluated. RESULTS No significant differences were detected for operative outcomes and surgeon ratings, however, trends were detected favoring MAGS. Surgeon workload ratings were significantly better for MAGS (2.6 ± 0.2) vs. LAP (5.6 ± 1.1; p < 0.05). For MAGS, depth perception and triangulation were excellent and the safe handling protocol was followed with no complications. For LAP, the parallelism of instruments and lack of triangulation hindered depth perception, caused instrument conflicts, and resulted in two minor complications (one superficial liver laceration and one inadvertent burn to the diaphragm). CONCLUSION These data suggest that using the MAGS device for SSL cholecystectomy results in equivalent (or better) operative outcomes and less workload compared with LAP.
1rmpn4sk We examined how different drivers of infectious disease could interact to threaten control efforts in Europe. We considered projected trends through 2020 for 3 broad groups of drivers: globalization and environmental change, social and demographic change, and health system capacity. Eight plausible infectious disease threats with the potential to be significantly more problematic than they are today were identified through an expert consultation: extensively drug-resistant bacteria, vector-borne diseases, sexually transmitted infections, food-borne infections, a resurgence of vaccine-preventable diseases, health care-associated infections, multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, and pandemic influenza. Preemptive measures to be taken by the public health community to counteract these threats were identified.
1roubx7a Abstract The aquatic environment can be greatly impacted by thermal and hypoxic stresses, particularly caused by intensified global warming. Hence, there is an urgency to understand the response mechanisms of marine organisms to adverse environment. Although long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are involved in many biological processes, their roles in stress responses still remain unclear. Here, differentially expressed (DE) lncRNAs and mRNAs were identified as responses to environmental stresses in the economically important sea cucumber, Apostichopus japonicus, and their potential roles were explored. Based on a total of 159, 355 and 495 significantly upregulated genes and 230, 518 and 647 significantly downregulated genes identified in the thermal, hypoxic and combination thermal + hypoxic stress treatments, respectively, we constructed DE-lncRNA-mRNA coexpression networks. Among the networks, eight shared pairs were identified from the three treatments, and based on the connectivity degree, MSTRG.27265, MSTRG.19729 and MSTRG.95524 were shown to be crucial lncRNAs. Among all the significantly changed lncRNAs identified by RT-qPCR and sequencing data, binding sites were found in four other lncRNAs (MSTRG.34610, MSTRG.10941, MSTRG.81281 and MSTRG.93731) with Aja-miR-2013-3p, a key miRNA that responds to hypoxia in sea cucumbers. The hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1α) was also shown as the possible targeted mRNA of Aja-miR-2013-3p. As indicated by a dual-luciferase reporter assay system, “HIF-1α gene/Aja-miR-2013-3p/MSTRG.34610” network and the “HIF-1α gene/Aja-miR-2013-3p/MSTRG.10941” network may play important roles in sea cucumbers under environmental stresses. Moreover, environmental stress altered the expression of multiple lncRNAs and mRNAs, thus affecting various biological processes in A. japonicus, including immunity, energy metabolism and the cell cycle. At the molecular level, more comprehensive responses were elicited by the combined thermal/hypoxic stress treatment than by individual stresses alone in sea cucumbers. This study lays the groundwork for future research on molecular mechanisms of echinoderm responses to thermal and hypoxic stress in the context of global climate changes.
1rxm2l3m The study of the etiological agents of community-acquired pulmonary infections is important to guide empirical therapy, requires constant updating, and has a substantial impact on the prognosis of patients. The objective of this study is to determine prospectively the etiology of community-acquired pulmonary infections in hospitalized adults living with HIV. Patients were submitted to an extended microbiological investigation that included molecular methods. The microbiological findings were evaluated according to severity of the disease and pneumococcal vaccine status. Two hundred twenty-four patients underwent the extended microbiological investigation of whom 143 (64%) had an etiology determined. Among the 143 patients with a determined etiology, Pneumocystis jirovecii was the main agent, detected in 52 (36%) cases and followed by Mycobacterium tuberculosis accounting for 28 (20%) cases. Streptococcus pneumoniae and Rhinovirus were diagnosed in 22 (15%) cases each and influenza in 15 (10%) cases. Among atypical bacteria, Mycoplasma pneumoniae was responsible for 12 (8%) and Chlamydophila pneumoniae for 7 (5%) cases. Mixed infections occurred in 48 cases (34%). S pneumoniae was associated with higher severity scores and not associated with vaccine status. By using extended diagnostics, a microbiological agent could be determined in the majority of patients living with HIV affected by community-acquired pulmonary infections. Our findings can guide clinicians in the choice of empirical therapy for hospitalized pulmonary disease.
1ryrbqgi BACKGROUND: Enterovirus/rhinoviruses (EvRh) are the most common cause of respiratory virus infections in recipients of allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). OBJECTIVE: We sought to analyze the value of the immunodeficiency scoring index (ISI) in predicting lower respiratory tract disease (LRTD) progression and mortality in a prospective cohort of consecutive adult (>16 years) allo-HSCT recipients with EvRh infection from December 1 2013 to December 1 2019 at two Spanish transplant centers. RESULTS: We included 234 allo-HSCT recipients with 383 EvRh episodes. Out of 383 EvRh episodes, 98 (25%) had LRTD. Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified three independent factors associated with LRTD progression: Ig G < 400 mg/dL, community-acquired respiratory virus (CARV) co-infection and high-risk ISI. Inclusion of Ig G levels and CARV co-infection in the ISI improved its performance by significantly increasing the area under the receiver operator characteristic curve (AUROC) from 0.643 to 0.734 (P = .03). Likewise, the two conditions identified by multivariate analyses as associated with higher probability of mortality were high-risk ISI and EvRh infection within 6 months after transplant. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm the value of high-risk ISI in predicting both probability of EvRh LRTD and 3-month overall mortality. We also demonstrate that the original ISI could be adapted to other CARV types by including additional variables to improve its performance.
1s1977ut It is difficult to predict if and when the femoral head will collapse and whether the collapse can be minimized. This study examined the final outcome of early-stage osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) using magnetic resonance imaging to verify the relationship between preservation of the lateral pillar and collapse of the femoral head. A midcoronal section of the femoral head was divided into 3 pillars (medial, central, and lateral) on a T1-weighted image. According to the site of necrosis on the lateral pillar, the necrosis was divided into 3 types: I, the necrosis occupies the central and medial pillars, and the lateral pillar is preserved; II, the necrosis partially occupies the lateral pillar; and III, the necrosis totally occupies the lateral pillar. One group of 87 patients (127 hips) with Association for Research on Osseous Circulation (ARCO) stage I ONFH underwent nonoperative treatment and were followed for 3 to 8 years (average, 6.2 years). Another group of 42 patients (72 hips) with ARCO stage I ONFH underwent debridement and impacted bone graft and were followed for 5 to 9 years (average, 7.1 years). In both groups, the more preserved the lateral pillar, the less collapse occurred. The authors concluded that whether ONFH progressed to collapse is determined by preservation of the lateral pillar. The lateral pillar is the keystone for maintaining the sphere of the femoral head and its preservation.
1s25r3o0 The Feline coronavirus (FCoV) can lead to Feline infectious peritonitis (FIP), which the precise cause is still unknown. The theory of internal mutation suggests that a less virulent biotype of FCoV (FECV) would lead to another more pathogenic biotype (FIPV) capable of causing FIP. In this work, the 7b gene was amplified from 51 domestic cat plasma samples by semi-nested PCR and tested through phylogenetic and phylogeographical approaches. The 7b gene of Brazilian isolates displayed high conservation, a strong correlation between the geographic origin of the viral isolates and their genealogy, and its evolution was possibly shaped by a combination of high rates of nucleotide substitution and purifying selection.
1s2zsqoq From the beginning of 2002 and 2012, severe respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS‐CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS‐CoV) crossed the species barriers to infect humans, causing thousands of infections and hundreds of deaths, respectively. Currently, a novel coronavirus (SARS‐CoV‐2), which has become the cause of the outbreak of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID‐19), was discovered. Until 18 February 2020, there were 72 533 confirmed COVID‐19 cases (including 10 644 severe cases) and 1872 deaths in China. SARS‐CoV‐2 is spreading among the public and causing substantial burden due to its human‐to‐human transmission. However, the intermediate host of SARS‐CoV‐2 is still unclear. Finding the possible intermediate host of SARS‐CoV‐2 is imperative to prevent further spread of the epidemic. In this study, we used systematic comparison and analysis to predict the interaction between the receptor‐binding domain (RBD) of coronavirus spike protein and the host receptor, angiotensin‐converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). The interaction between the key amino acids of S protein RBD and ACE2 indicated that, other than pangolins and snakes, as previously suggested, turtles (Chrysemys picta bellii, Chelonia mydas, and Pelodiscus sinensis) may act as the potential intermediate hosts transmitting SARS‐CoV‐2 to humans.
1sbkiw86 UNSTRUCTURED: Physicians, nurses, and other healthcare providers initiated the #GetMePPE movement on Twitter to spread awareness of the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) during the COVID-19 pandemic. Dwindling supplies, such as face masks, gowns and goggles, and inadequate production to meet increasing demands, has left healthcare workers and patients at risk. The momentum of this Twitter hashtag resulted in a petition to urge public officials to address the PPE shortage through increased funding and production. Simultaneously, GetUsPPE.org was launched by a collaborative of physicians and software engineers to develop a digital platform for the donation, request, and distribution of multi-modal sources of PPE. GetUsPPE.org and #GetMePPE merged in an attempt to combine public engagement and advocacy on social media with the coordination of PPE donation and distribution. Within ten days, over 1800 hospitals and PPE suppliers were registered in a database that allowed for the rapid coordination and distribution of scarce and in-demand materials. One month after its launch, the organization has distributed hundreds of thousands of items of PPE and built a database of over 6,000 PPE requesters[1] The call for action on social media and the rapid development of this digital tool created a productive channel for the public to contribute to the healthcare response to COVID-19 in meaningful ways. #GetMePPE and GetUsPPE.org were able to mobilize individuals and organizations outside of the healthcare system to address the unmet needs of the medical community. The success of GetUsPPE.org demonstrates the potential of digital tools as a platform for larger healthcare institutions (table 1) to rapidly address urgent issues in healthcare. In this manuscript, we outline this process and discuss key factors determining success.
1sdt9zz8 BACKGROUND: Laboratory-based respiratory pathogen (RP) results are often available too late to influence clinical decisions such as hospitalisation or antibiotic treatment due to time delay in transport of specimens and testing schedules. Ward-based i.e. point of care (POC) testing providing rapid results may alter the clinical management pathway. METHODS: FilmArray® RP polymerase chain reaction (PCR) systems were placed in three in-patient and out-patient medical areas. Patients presenting with influenza-like illness /upper respiratory tract infection +/− lower RTI were recruited between January–July 2015. FilmArray® POC testing occurred on even days of the month (intervention) or routine, laboratory-based RP PCR testing +/− atypical serology on odd days (control). The primary outcome was length of hospital stay. The secondary outcomes were impact on the use of antimicrobials, readmissions, all-cause mortality, length of ward stay and turn-around time (TAT) (time to result from admission). RESULTS: Of 606 eligible patients, 545 (89.9%) were included; 211 in the control arm and 334 in the intervention arm. 20% of control arm patients and 24% of intervention arm patients had an RP detected. POC testing was not associated with the primary outcome measure, length of stay, but reduced the TAT from 39.5 h to 19.0 h, p < 0.001. Only the prescribing decision differed between study arms, p < 0.001. When antivirals were given, the intervention was associated with a reduction in the median time to the first dose of 36 h and allowed appropriate treatment of mycoplasma infection. CONCLUSIONS: We found no association between respiratory PCR POC testing and length of stay or most of the secondary outcomes except the antimicrobial prescribing decision. This was probably due to a delay in initiating FilmArray® testing. Despite this, POC testing allowed time-critical antivirals to be given significantly faster, appropriate mycoplasma treatment and results were available considerably faster than routine, laboratory-based testing. Ward-staff of all grades performed POC testing without difficulty suggesting potential use across many divergent healthcare settings. Further studies evaluating the implementation of rapid respiratory PCR POC testing and the effect on length of stay and antimicrobial use are required. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN10470967, Retrospectively Registered, 30/6/2015.
1seht1iq Hantaviruses are zoonotic viruses harbored by rodents, bats, and shrews. At present, only rodent-borne hantaviruses are associated with severe illness in humans. New species of hantaviruses have been recently identified in bats and shrews greatly expanding the potential reservoirs and ranges of these viruses. Brazil has one of the highest incidences of hantavirus cardiopulmonary syndrome in South America, hence it is critical to know what is the prevalence of hantaviruses in Brazil. Although much is known about rodent reservoirs, little is known regarding bats. We captured 270 bats from February 2012 to April 2014. Serum was screened for the presence of antibodies against a recombinant nucleoprotein (rN) of Araraquara virus (ARAQV). The prevalence of antibody to hantavirus was 9/53 with an overall seroprevalence of 17%. Previous studies have shown only insectivorous bats to harbor hantavirus; however, in our study, of the nine seropositive bats, five were frugivorous, one was carnivorous, and three were sanguivorous phyllostomid bats.
1sm4b3z3 The complete sequence of the spike (S) gene of the Br1/87 isolate of porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus (PEDV) was determined from cDNA clones. The predicted polypeptide was 1383 amino acids long, contained 29 potential N-linked glycosylation sites and showed structural features similar to those of the coronavirus spike protein. The PEDV S protein, like that of the members of the transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV)-related subset, lacks a proteolytic site to yield cleaved amino and carboxy subunits S1 and S2. Viral polypeptide species of the expected M(r), i.e. 170K/190K, were observed in PEDV-infected cells. Sequence comparison confirmed that, within the subset, PEDV was most closely related to the human respiratory coronavirus HCV 229E. However, PEDV S protein has an additional 250 residue N-terminal domain which is absent from HCV 229E and porcine respiratory coronavirus, the respiratory variant of TGEV. Alignment of the S1 regions revealed a second domain of about 90 residues with increased sequence divergence which might possibly express virus-specific determinants.
1t1hjgqp BACKGROUND An operative anatomy course was developed within the construct of a surgical internship preparatory curriculum. This course provided fourth-year medical students matching into a surgical residency the opportunity to perform intern-level procedures on cadavers under the guidance of surgical faculty members. METHODS Senior medical students performed intern-level procedures on cadavers with the assistance of faculty surgeons. Students' confidence, anxiety, and procedural knowledge were evaluated both preoperatively and postoperatively. Preoperative and postoperative data were compared both collectively and based on individual procedures. RESULTS Student confidence and procedural knowledge significantly increased and anxiety significantly decreased when preoperative and postoperative data were compared (P < .05). Students reported moderate to significant improvement in their ability to perform a variety of surgical tasks. CONCLUSIONS The consistent improvement in confidence, knowledge, and anxiety justifies further development of an operative anatomy course, with future assessment of the impact on performance in surgical residency.
1te0qc45 Neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) against severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus (SARS-CoV) spike (S) glycoprotein confer protection to animals experimentally infected with the pathogenic virus. We and others previously demonstrated that a major mechanism for neutralizing SARS-CoV was through blocking the interaction between the S glycoprotein and the cellular receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). In this study, we used in vivo electroporation DNA immunization and a pseudovirus-based assay to functionally evaluate immunogenicity and viral entry. We characterized the neutralization and viral entry determinants within the ACE2-binding domain of the S glycoprotein. The deletion of a positively charged region Sdelta(422-463) abolished the capacity of the S glycoprotein to induce NAbs in mice vaccinated by in vivo DNA electroporation. Moreover, the Sdelta(422-463) pseudovirus was unable to infect HEK293T-ACE2 cells. To determine the specific residues that contribute to related phenotypes, we replaced eight basic amino acids with alanine. We found that a single amino acid substitution (R441A) in the full-length S DNA vaccine failed to induce NAbs and abolished viral entry when pseudoviruses were generated. However, another substitution (R453A) abolished viral entry while retaining the capacity for inducing NAbs. The difference between R441A and R453A suggests that the determinants for immunogenicity and viral entry may not be identical. Our findings provide direct evidence that these basic residues are essential for immunogenicity of the major neutralizing domain and for viral entry. Our data have implications for the rational design of vaccine and antiviral agents as well as for understanding viral tropism.
1th7ag0y When facing high-dimensional data streams, clustering algorithms quickly reach the boundaries of their usefulness as most of these methods are not designed to deal with the curse of dimensionality. Due to inherent sparsity in high-dimensional data, distances between objects tend to become meaningless since the distances between any two objects measured in the full dimensional space tend to become the same for all pairs of objects. In this work, we present a novel oriented subspace clustering algorithm that is able to deal with such issues and detects arbitrarily oriented subspace clusters in high-dimensional data streams. Data streams generally implicate the challenge that the data cannot be stored entirely and hence there is a general demand for suitable data handling strategies for clustering algorithms such that the data can be processed within a single scan. We therefore propose the CashStream algorithm that unites state-of-the-art stream processing techniques and additionally relies on the Hough transform to detect arbitrarily oriented subspace clusters. Our experiments compare CashStream to its static counterpart and show that the amount of consumed memory is significantly decreased while there is no loss in terms of runtime. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this chapter (10.1007/978-3-030-47426-3_28) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
1tw9vw1q OBJECTIVES: In Australia, the current emergency department (ED) burden related to COVID‐19 is from ‘suspected’ rather than ‘confirmed’ cases. The initial aim of the Registry for Emergency Care (REC) Project is to determine the impact of isolation processes on the emergency care of all patients. METHODS: The REC Project builds on the COVID‐19 Emergency Department Quality Improvement Project (COVED). Outcomes measured include times to critical assessment and management. RESULTS: Clinical tools will be generated to inform emergency care, both during and beyond the COVID‐19 pandemic. CONCLUSIONS: The REC Project will support ED clinicians in the emergency care of all patients. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
1tyo148f We read the article by D'Alessandro Miriana et al. with great interest and appreciate their efforts to evaluate the role of serum Krebs von den Lungen-6 (KL-6) as a prognostic biomarker of severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).1 This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
1ug29xxd The availability of Wi-Fi connection points or hotspots in places such as parks, transport stations, libraries, and so on is one of the key aspects to allow people the usage of Internet resources (to study, work or meet). This is even more important in Central America and Caribbean countries where the deployment of huge cost infrastructure (like optical fiber) to provide Internet access at home is not envisaged neither in the short or mid term. And this is clearly the case in Havana, Cuba. This contribution presents the problem of planning the Wi-Fi access points activation, where each point can have different signal power levels and availability along the time. Due to power consumption constraints, it is impossible to have all the points activated simultaneously with maximum signal strength. The problem is modelled as a dynamic maximal covering location one with facility types and time dependant availability. A metaheuristic approach is used to solve the problem by using an Algorithm portfolio and examples on how solutions can be analyzed (beyond the coverage provided) are shown.
1untezgg Some of the articles being published during the severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus (SARS-CoV)-2 pandemic highlight a link between severe forms of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and the so-called cytokine storm, also with increased ferritin levels. However, this scenario is more complex than initially thought due to the heterogeneity of hyperinflammation. Some patients with coronavirus 2019 disease (COVID-19) develop a fully blown secondary haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (sHLH), whereas others, despite a consistent release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, do not fulfil sHLH criteria but still show some features resembling the phenotype of the hyperferritinemic syndrome. Despite the final event (the cytokine storm) is shared by various conditions leading to sHLH, the aetiology, either infectious, autoimmune or neoplastic, accounts for the differences in the various phases of this process. Moreover, the evidence of a hyperinflammatory microenvironment provided the rationale to employ immunomodulating agents for therapeutic purposes in severe COVID-19. This viewpoint aims at discussing the pitfalls and issues to be considered with regard to the use of immunomodulating agents in COVID-19, such as timing of treatment based on the viral load and the extent of cytokine/ferritin overexpression. Furthermore, it encompasses recent findings in the paediatric field about a novel multisystem inflammatory disease resembling toxic shock syndrome and atypical Kawasaki disease observed in children with proven SARS-CoV2 infection. Finally, it includes arguments in favour of adding COVID-19 to the spectrum of the recently defined 'hyperferritinemic syndrome', which already includes adult-onset Still's disease, macrophage activation syndrome, septic shock and catastrophic anti-phospholipid syndrome.
1ur4tbwj Newcastle disease virus (NDV) and infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) are two poultry pathogens affecting the respiratory tract of chickens, and cause major economic losses in the industry. Rapid detection of these viruses is crucial to inform implementation of appropriate control measures. The objective of our study is developing a simple, rapid and field applicable recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA)–nucleic acid lateral flow (NALF) immunoassay for detection of NDV and IBV. Isothermal amplification of the matrix protein (M) gene of NDV and the nucleoprotein (N) gene of IBV was implemented via recombinase polymerase amplification at 38 °C for 40 min and 20 min, respectively using modified labeled primers. NALF device used in this study utilizes antibodies for detection of labeled RPA amplicons. The results revealed that RPA-NALF immunoassays can detect both viruses after 40 min at 38 °C and only NDV after 20 min. The limit of detection (LOD) was 10 genomic copies/RPA reaction. The assays results on clinical samples collected from diseased chicken farms demonstrated a good performance in comparison with quantitative real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The assays established in this study can facilitate rapid, on-site molecular diagnosis of suspected cases of ND and IB viral infections as the results can be detected by the naked eye without the need for measuring fluorescence. Furthermore, the NALF device could be adapted to detect other infectious agents.
1uriiqhh BACKGROUND: The novel coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), infected over 3300 healthcare workers in early 2020 in China. Little information is known about nosocomial infections of healthcare workers in the initial period. We analysed data from healthcare workers with nosocomial infections in Wuhan Union Hospital (Wuhan, China) and their family members. METHODS: We collected and analysed data on exposure history, illness timelines and epidemiological characteristics from 25 healthcare workers with laboratory-confirmed coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and two healthcare workers in whom COVID-19 was highly suspected, as well as 10 of their family members with COVID-19, between 5 January and 12 February 2020. The demographics and clinical features of the 35 laboratory-confirmed cases were investigated and viral RNA of 12 cases was sequenced and analysed. RESULTS: Nine clusters were found among the patients. All patients showed mild to moderate clinical manifestation and recovered without deterioration. The mean period of incubation was 4.5â days, the mean±sd clinical onset serial interval (COSI) was 5.2±3.2â days, and the median virus shedding time was 18.5â days. Complete genomic sequences of 12 different coronavirus strains demonstrated that the viral structure, with small irrelevant mutations, was stable in the transmission chains and showed remarkable traits of infectious traceability. CONCLUSIONS: SARS-CoV-2 can be rapidly transmitted from person to person, regardless of whether they have symptoms, in both hospital settings and social activities, based on the short period of incubation and COSI. The public health service should take practical measures to curb the spread, including isolation of cases, tracing close contacts, and containment of severe epidemic areas. Besides this, healthcare workers should be alert during the epidemic and self-quarantine if self-suspected of infection.
1uwir5b8 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 not yet has established its treatment, but convalescent plasma has been expected to increase survival rates as in the case with other emerging viral infections. We describe two cases of COVID-19 treated with convalescent plasma infusion. Both patients presented severe pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome and showed a favorable outcome after the use of convalescent plasma in addition to systemic corticosteroid. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the use of convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 in Korea.
1v0qwrt6 Abstract Cell death processes during human astrovirus replication in CaCo-2 cells and their underlying mechanisms were investigated. Morphological and biochemical alterations typical of apoptosis were analyzed in infected cells using a combination of techniques, including DAPI staining, the sub-G0/G1 technique and the TUNEL assay. The onset of apoptosis was directly proportional to the virus multiplicity of infection. Transient expression experiments showed a direct link between astrovirus ORF1a encoded proteins and apoptosis induction. A computer analysis of the astrovirus genome revealed the presence of a death domain in the nonstructural protein p38 of unknown function, encoded in ORF1a. Apoptosis inhibition experiments suggested the involvement of caspase 8 in the apoptotic response, and led to a reduction in the infectivity of the virus progeny released to the supernatant. We conclude that apoptotic death of host cells seems necessary for efficient human astrovirus replication and particle maturation.
1v3kx271 The relationship between maternal folic acid supplementation in pregnancy and infant birthweight has not been well described in low- and middle-income countries. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the current evidence of the association between folic acid supplementation in pregnancy on three primary outcomes: the incidence of low birthweight, small for gestational age, and mean birthweight. Seventeen studies were identified, which satisfied the inclusion criteria, covering a total of 275,421 women from 13 cohort studies and four randomized controlled trials. For the primary outcome of mean birthweight (n = 9), the pooled mean difference between folic acid and control groups was 0.37 kg (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.24 to 0.50), and this effect was larger in the randomized controlled trials (0.56, 95% CI: 0.15 to 0.97, n = 3). The pooled odds ratio was 0.59 for low birthweight (95% CI: 0.47 to 0.74, n = 10) among folic acid supplementation versus control. The pooled odds ratio for the association with small for gestational age was 0.63 (95% CI: 0.39 to 1.01, n = 5). Maternal folic acid supplementation in low- and middle-income countries was associated with an increased mean birthweight of infants and decreases in the incidence of low birthweight and small for gestational age.
1v5xisvl This article discusses the production of the various classes of vaccines and compares the advantages and disadvantages of each. Adjuvants, combination vaccines, heterologous viral vaccines, and vaccination failure are discussed briefly. Reported adverse reactions to vaccination are described at length. Essential vaccination for several exotic species is given.
1v8wwn0d Infection control instructions call for use of alcohol-based hand rub solutions to inactivate severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. We determined the virucidal activity of World Health Organization-recommended hand rub formulations, at full strength and multiple dilutions, and of the active ingredients. All disinfectants demonstrated efficient virus inactivation.
1w54xw02 Abstract Three methods for assembling multiple, overlapping DNA molecules are described. Each method shares the same basic approach: (i) an exonuclease removes nucleotides from the ends of double-stranded (ds) DNA molecules, exposing complementary single-stranded (ss) DNA overhangs that are specifically annealed; (ii) the ssDNA gaps of the joined molecules are filled in by DNA polymerase, and the nicks are covalently sealed by DNA ligase. The first method employs the 3′-exonuclease activity of T4 DNA polymerase (T4 pol), Taq DNA polymerase (Taq pol), and Taq DNA ligase (Taq lig) in a two-step thermocycled reaction. The second method uses 3′-exonuclease III (ExoIII), antibody-bound Taq pol, and Taq lig in a one-step thermocycled reaction. The third method employs 5′-T5 exonuclease, Phusion® DNA polymerase, and Taq lig in a one-step isothermal reaction and can be used to assemble both ssDNA and dsDNA. These assembly methods can be used to seamlessly construct synthetic and natural genes, genetic pathways, and entire genomes and could be very useful for molecular engineering tools.
1w8pr4k7 Introduction: While pharmacists in other countries have broad independent prescribing privileges, pharmacists in the United States are making progress. Pharmacist prescriptive authority in the U.S. occurs on a continuum with four identified models: patient-specific collaborative prescribing through collaborative practice agreements (CPAs), population-specific prescribing through CPAs, statewide protocols, and class-specific prescribing. States have implemented pharmacist prescriptive authority across this spectrum. As approximately 90% of Americans reside within two miles of a community pharmacy, prescriptive authority of pharmacists leads to improved public health access points and outcomes. Objective: This paper is intended to provide insight into the current landscape of pharmacist prescriptive authority in the United States through 2019 in order to provide historical context and identify opportunities for state policy considerations. This was done through a review of published literature, national professional association resources, individual state pharmacy practice acts, and state legislation and regulations. Conclusion: Significant variability regarding what medications pharmacists can prescribe exists per state statutes. According to data collected from the National Alliance of State Pharmacy Associations (NASPA), 147 bills related to pharmacist provider status were introduced in 39 states during the 2019 legislative session. The interest in pharmacist prescribing stems from current and future challenges within the U.S. health care system: access to care, cost of care, and the anticipated shortage of physicians. The challenge to standardize prescriptive authority across states presents a unique opportunity for future considerations. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
1wae4kw7 Compared with other countries, Taiwan has had relatively few cases during the COVID-19 pandemic. One of the many measures the government implemented was a system for rationing and distributing surgical masks to the public while prioritizing allocation of masks to health care workers. This essay describes the role of community pharmacists in implementing the system and distributing masks to the public.
1welnkoj Abstract This paper discusses actions aimed at sustainable management of healthcare wastes (HCW) in China, taking into account the current national situation in this field, as well as the requirements deriving from the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants and the WHO recommendations. By the end of 2005, there were 149 low-standard HCW disposal facilities in operation in China, distributed throughout different areas. According to the National Hazardous Waste and Healthcare Waste Disposal Facility Construction Plan, 331 modern, high-standard, centralized facilities will be built up in China in municipal level cities. Although incineration is still the main technical option for HCW disposal in China, it is expected that, especially for medium and small size facilities, non-incineration technologies will develop quickly and will soon become the main technical option. The basic management needs – both from the point of view of pollution control and final disposal – have been defined, and a system of technical and environmental standards has been formulated and implemented; however, there are still some shortages. This is particularly true when considering the best available techniques and best environmental practices developed under the Stockholm Convention, with which the present technological and managing situations are not completely compliant. In this framework, the lifecycle (from generation to final disposal of wastes) of HCW and holistic approaches (technology verification, facilities operation, environmental supervision, environmental monitoring, training system, financial mechanism, etc.) towards HCW management are the most important criteria for the sustainable and reliable management of HCW in China.
1ww6qyoq The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented challenge and will require novel therapeutic strategies Affected patients are likely to be at risk of arrhythmia due to underlying comorbidities, polypharmacy and the disease process Importantly, a number of the medications likely to receive significant use can themselves, particularly in combination, be pro-arrhythmic Drug-induced prolongation of the QT interval is primarily caused by inhibition of the hERG potassium channel either directly and/or by impaired channel trafficking Concurrent use of multiple hERG-blocking drugs may have a synergistic rather than additive effect which, in addition to any pre-existing polypharmacy, critical illness or electrolyte imbalance, may significantly increase the risk of arrhythmia and Torsades de Pointes Knowledge of these risks will allow informed decisions regarding appropriate therapeutics and monitoring to keep our patients safe
1x1lebh4 Miniaturized integrated DNA analysis systems offer the potential to provide unprecedented advances in cost and speed relative to current benchtop-scale instrumentation by allowing rapid bioanalysis assays to be performed in a portable self contained device format that can be inexpensively mass-produced. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has been a natural focus of many of these miniaturization efforts, owing to its capability to efficiently replicate target regions of interest from small quantities template DNA. Scale-down of PCR has proven to be particularly challenging, however, due to an unfavorable combination of relatively severe temperature extremes (resulting in the need to repeatedly heat minute aqueous sample volumes to temperatures in the vicinity of 95°C with minimal evaporation) and high surface area to volume conditions imposed by nanoliter reactor geometries (often leading to inhibition of the reaction by nonspecific adsorption of reagents at the reactor walls). Despite these daunting challenges, considerable progress has been made in the development of microfluidic devices capable of performing increasingly sophisticated PCR-based bioassays. This chapter reviews the progress that has been made to date and assesses the outlook for future advances.
1xdvmv27 OBJECTIVE To investigate the effect of intra-arterial treatment (IAT) on early recovery from aphasia in acute ischemic stroke. We hypothesized that the early effect of IAT on aphasia is smaller than the effect on motor deficits. METHODS We included patients with aphasia from the Multicenter Randomized Clinical Trial of Endovascular Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke in the Netherlands (MR CLEAN), in which 500 patients with a proximal anterior circulation stroke were randomized to usual care plus IAT (<6 hours after stroke, mainly stent retrievers) or usual care alone. We estimated the effect of IAT on the shift on the NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) item language and the NIHSS item motor arm at 24 hours and 1 week after stroke with multivariable ordinal logistic regression as a common odds ratio, adjusted for prognostic variables (acOR). Differences between the effect of IAT on aphasia and on motor deficits were tested in a multilevel model with a multiplicative interaction term. RESULTS Of the 288 patients with aphasia, 126 were assigned to IAT and 162 to usual care alone. The acOR for improvement of language score at 24 hours was 1.65 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.05-2.60), and at 1 week 1.86 (95% CI 1.18-2.94). The acOR for improvement of motor deficit at 24 hours was 2.44 (95% CI 1.54-3.88), and at 1 week 2.32 (95% CI 1.43-3.77). The effect of IAT on language deficits was significantly different from the effect on motor deficits at 24 hours and 1 week (p = 0.005 and p = 0.011). CONCLUSIONS IAT results in better early recovery from aphasia than usual care alone. The early effect of IAT on aphasia is smaller than the effect on motor deficits. CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE This study provides Class II evidence that for patients with acute ischemic stroke IAT increases early recovery from aphasia and that the early effect on aphasia, as measured by the NIHSS, is smaller than the effect on motor deficits.
1xmdl0mf COVID-19 is a pandemic which has affected almost every aspect of our life since starting globally in November 2019. Given the rapidity of spread and inadequate time to prepare for record numbers of sick patients, our surgical community faces an unforeseen challenge. SAGES is committed to the protection and care of patients, their surgeons and staff, and all who are served by the medical community at large. This includes physical health, mental health, and well-being of all involved. The fear of the unknown ahead can be paralyzing. International news media have chronicled the unthinkable situations that physicians and other health care providers have been thrust into as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These situations include making life or death decisions for patients and their families regarding use of limited health care resources. It includes caring for patients with quickly deteriorating conditions and limited treatments available. Until recently, these situations seemed far from home, and now they are in our own hospitals. As the pandemic broadened its reach, the reality that we as surgeons may be joining the front line is real. It may be happening to you now; it may be on the horizon in the coming weeks. In this context, SAGES put together this document addressing concerns on clinician stressors in these times of uncertainty. We chose to focus on the emotional toll of the situation on the clinician, protecting vulnerable persons, reckoning with social isolation, and promoting wellness during this crisis. At the same time, the last part of this document deals with the "light at the end of the tunnel," discussing potential opportunities, lessons learned, and the positives that can come out of this crisis.
1xz5r95f ABSTRACT Aim. To asses if telemedicine with telemonitoring is a clinically useful and secure tool in the tracking of patients with COVID-19. Methods. A prospective observational study of patients with COVID-19 diagnosis by positive PCR considered high-risk tracked with telemedicine and telemonitoring was conducted in the sanitary area of Lugo between March 17th and April 17th, 2020. Two groups of patients were included: Outpatient Tracing from the beginning and after discharge. Every patient sent a daily clinical questionnaire with temperature and oxygen saturation 3 times a day. Proactive monitoring was done by getting in touch with every patient at least once a day. Results. 313 patients (52.4% female) with a total average age of 60.9 (DS 15.9) years were included. Additionally, 2 patients refused to join the program. Since the beginning, 224 were traced outpatient and 89 after being discharged. Among the first category, 38 (16.90%) were referred to Emergency department on 43 occasions; 18 were hospitalized (8.03%), and 2 deceased. Neither deaths nor a matter of vital emergency occurred at home. When including patients after admissions monitoring was done in 304 cases. One patient re-entered (0.32%) to the hospital, and another one left the program (0.32%). The average time of monitoring was 11.64 (SD 3.58) days, and 224 (73.68%) patients were discharged during the 30 days of study. Conclusions. Our study suggests that telemedicine with home telemonitoring, used proactively, allows for monitoring high-risk patients with COVID-19 in a clinically useful and secure way.
1xzvmhmp This chapter describes a variety of pathogens found in the environment that are capable of infecting humans and causing disease. Different classes of pathogens are discussed including bacteria, parasites and viruses. For each pathogen, data are provided on the incidence of the organism in a particular environmental matrix such as water, food or municipal waste. In addition, we discuss: the disease caused by the particular microbe; the mode of transmission; the incubation time needed within the host prior to the onset of disease; and the duration of illness. Fate and transport of pathogens in the environment are also described. A variety of bacterial pathogens are discussed including waterborne and waterbased bacteria. Parasites discussed include protozoa, nematodes, cestodes and trematodes. For viruses, both enteric and respiratory viruses are included.
1y4di8a6 The global severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak was the first pandemic of the 21st century. Although the outbreak was successfully controlled, evidence that SARS emerged from an animal reservoir has raised concerns that another pandemic could occur. This review discusses the likelihood of another SARS pandemic and reviews the epidemiological and clinical features of the disease with an emphasis on the clinical presentation, diagnosis, and management of SARS.
1ykji0c8 The introduction of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques has improved the detection of respiratory viruses, particularly with the use of multiplex real-time technique with the capability of simultaneous detection of various pathogens in a single reaction. The aim of this study was to apply the above technology for the diagnosis of influenza infections and at the same time to differentiate between common flu species between hospitalized patients in Laleh hospital (Iran) between two flu seasons (2016-2017 and 2017-2018). Different respiratory specimens were collected from 540 patients from a period of December 2016 to May 2018 and were sent to the laboratory for molecular diagnosis. RNAs were extracted and subsequently, a multiplex real time PCR identifying flu A, flu B and typing flu A (H1N1) was carried out. The mean age of patients was 47.54±23.96. 216 (40%) and 321 (60%) of subjects were male and female, respectively. 219 out of 540 (40.5%) were positive for influenza infection including flu A (n=97, 44.3%), flu A (H1N1) (n=45, 20.7%) and flu B (n=77, 35%). Flu A was the dominant species on 2016-2017 and flu B was the major species on 2017-2018. Flu A (H1N1) was comparable in both time periods. Flu infections were most frequently diagnosed in age groups 21-40. Flu-positive patients suffered more from body pain and sore throat than flunegative patients with significant statistical difference (P values <0.001). The mean duration of hospitalization was shorter for flu-positive patients (P value = 0.016). Application of multiplex real time PCR could facilitate the influenza diagnosis in a short period of time, benefiting patients from exclusion of bacterial infections and avoiding unnecessary antibiotic therapy. Influenza diagnosis was not achieved in up to 60% of flu-like respiratory infections, suggesting the potential benefit of adopting the same methodology for assessing the involvement of other viral or/and bacterial pathogens in those patients.
1yn80025 Attributed graph grammars can specify the transformation of complex data and object structures within a natural rule-based model of concurrency. This is crucial to their use in modelling interfaces of services and components as well as the evolution of complex systems and networks. However, the established concurrent semantics of graph grammars by unfolding does not cover attributed grammars. We develop a theory of unfolding for attributed graph grammars where attribution is represented symbolically, via logical constraints. We establish a functorial representation (a coreflection) of unfolding which guarantees it to be correct, complete and fully abstract. As a case study and running example we demonstrate the use of visual contracts to specify an escrow smart contract.
1zokmlnd During the past two decades, antibodies, antibody derivatives and vaccines have been developed for therapeutic and diagnostic applications in human and veterinary medicine. Numerous species of dicot and monocot plants have been genetically modified to produce antibodies or vaccines, and a number of diverse transformation methods and strategies to enhance the accumulation of the pharmaceutical proteins are now available. Veterinary applications are the specific focus of this article, in particular for pathogenic viruses, bacteria and eukaryotic parasites. We focus on the advantages and remaining challenges of plant-based therapeutic proteins for veterinary applications with emphasis on expression platforms, technologies and economic considerations.
1zp6bn1h Abstract Lectin PFL binding high-mannose glycan derived from Pseudomonas fluorescens and other homologous lectins: PML derived from Pseudomonas mandelii and PTL derived from Pseudomonas taiwanensis were examined for antiviral activity. The cDNA of these lectin genes were synthesized, cloned, expressed in Escherichia coli. The expressed lectins were purified by gel filtrations, and supplied to cultures infected with several strains of influenza virus. These three lectins have inhibited propagation of influenza viruses with a similar extent, 50% of inhibition-dose was around ten nanomolar concentration. An immunofluorescent microscopy, a microarray analysis, and several infection experiments with different time periods of lectin addition or using the competitor substrates indicated that binding of these lectins with high-mannose glycan on HA protein of influenza virus could block the virus entry into the host cells, thereby resulting in inhibition of the virus propagation. These Pseudomonas-derived lectins would be protential and attractive antiviral agents targeting glycoproteins of enveloped viruses including influenza virus.
1zpmu3zt Radiofrequency ablation (RF) energy devices are increasingly being used in arthroscopic surgery. This is a case report of a 53-year-old man who had second-degree burns of the shoulder and chest wall as a result of fluid overheating due to RF. During an extensive arthroscopic bursal dissection of the left shoulder, the suction device on the RF wand and the valve was left open, allowing fluid to drip onto the chest and arm of the patient. Three days after his surgery, on his first postoperative visit, the dressings were removed, and the patient was noted to have severe blistering on the lateral aspect of his arm and on the anterolateral aspect of his left chest wall. One year after the surgery, he still had residual scarring that was only mildly intermittently pruritic. The use of RF during arthroscopic surgery is very useful clinically; however, it is important to have a strict understanding of the potential hazards the thermal energy can cause to the surrounding soft tissue.
1zpt93ve Show-Me ECHO, a state-funded project, provides access to education within a community of learners in order to optimize healthcare for the citizens of Missouri. Through videoconferencing and case-based review, ECHO shifts professional development from learning about medical problems in isolation to experiential learning as part of a multidisciplinary team. The establishment of a statewide COVID-19 ECHO is allowing a rapid response to this novel, unprecedented, and unanticipated health care crisis. There are many ongoing opportunities for clinicians from across the state to join a Show-Me ECHO learning community as a means to elevate their practice and improve ability to respond amidst a constantly evolving health care environment.
1zyy536y Abstract In the spring of 2009, a novel (H1N1) influenza A virus began to spread among humans worldwide. Although the 2009 H1N1 is related genetically to swine influenza viruses, human infection has not been connected to pig exposure. Because the virus is now circulating widely in the human population, swine herds are at increased risk of becoming infected. In order to investigate potential outbreaks of the 2009 pandemic virus in pigs, a quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) for the detection of the (H1N1) 2009 RNA in clinical specimens was developed. To evaluate the applicability of the test as a diagnostic tool in the screening of field specimens from swine, 64 field isolates of North American swine, 5 equine and 48 avian influenza viruses collected during diagnostic investigations were analyzed retrospectively as well as samples collected during an experimental in vivo infection with two novel H1N1 isolates, A/California/04/2009 (H1N1)v virus and A/Mexico/4108/2009 (H1N1)v. The sensitivity of the qRT-PCR was shown to be higher with respect to standard techniques such as virus isolation and the reproducibility was satisfactory. The present unique and highly sensitive assay is able to detect as little as 1×101 copies of RNA per μl of template and it represents a rapid and useful approach for the screening and quantitation of (H1N1) 2009 RNA in porcine specimens.
20529jww Griffithsin (GRFT) is a broad-spectrum antiviral protein that is effective against several glycosylated viruses. Here, we have evaluated the in vitro and in vivo antiviral activities of GRFT against Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) infection. In vitro experiments showed that treatment of JEV with GRFT before inoculation of BHK-21 cells inhibited infection in a dose-dependent manner, with 99 % inhibition at 100 μg/ml and a 50 % inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of 265 ng/ml (20 nM). Binding assays suggested that binding of GRFT to JEV virions inhibited JEV infection. In vivo experiment showed that GRFT (5 mg/kg) administered intraperitoneally before virus infection could completely prevent mortality in mice challenged intraperitoneally with a lethal dose of JEV. Our study also suggested that GRFT prevents JEV infection at the entry phase by targeting the virus. Collectively, our data demonstrate that GRFT is an antiviral agent with potential application in the development of therapeutics against JEV or other flavivirus infections.
2099qgdn How innate and adaptive lung immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 synchronize during COVID-19 pneumonitis and regulate disease severity is poorly established. To address this, we applied single-cell profiling to bronchoalveolar lavages from 44 patients with mild or critical COVID-19 versus non-COVID-19 pneumonia as control. Viral RNA-tracking delineated the infection phenotype to epithelial cells, but positioned mainly neutrophils at the forefront of viral clearance activity during COVID-19. In mild disease, neutrophils could execute their antiviral function in an immunologically ‘controlled’ fashion, regulated by fully-differentiated T-helper-17 (TH17)-cells, as well as T-helper-1 (TH1)-cells, CD8+ resident-memory (TRM) and partially-exhausted (TEX) T-cells with good effector functions. This was paralleled by ‘orderly’ phagocytic disposal of dead/stressed cells by fully-differentiated macrophages, otherwise characterized by anti-inflammatory and antigen-presenting characteristics, hence facilitating lung tissue repair. In critical disease, CD4+ TH1- and CD8+ TEX-cells were characterized by inflammation-associated stress and metabolic exhaustion, while CD4+ TH17- and CD8+ TRM-cells failed to differentiate. Consequently, T-cell effector function was largely impaired thereby possibly facilitating excessive neutrophil-based inflammation. This was accompanied by impaired monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation, with monocytes exhibiting an ATP-purinergic signalling-inflammasome footprint, thereby enabling COVID-19 associated fibrosis and worsening disease severity. Our work represents a major resource for understanding the lung-localised immunity and inflammation landscape during COVID-19.
20efj91n BACKGROUND: The detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) in the intensive care unit (ICU) presents several challenges, mainly associated to the clinical state of the patient. The presence of HIV infection further aggravates this scenario, requiring a reliable collection method, with better performance in the microbiological/molecular techniques to be used. We evaluated the performance of two methods for sample collection, mini bronchoalveolar lavage (Mini-BAL) and endotracheal aspirate (ETA), for diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) in critically ill patients. METHODS: This prospective study involved 26 HIV positive ICU internalized patients, with presumptive PTB who required mechanical ventilation. Two samples were obtained prospectively from 26 HIV ICU patients with presumptive PTB by Mini-BAL and ETA. The samples were processed for smear microscopy, Löwenstein-Jensen medium and the BACTEC Mycobacteria Growth Indicator Tube 960 system®. We define as confirmed PTB patients with positive MTB culture. Furthermore, all samples obtained through the Mini-BAL were analyzed by Xpert® MTB/RIF. RESULTS: Our results demonstrated that the respiratory samples obtained by Mini-BAL were able to increase MTB detection in critically ill patients with presumptive PTB. The Mini-BAL allowed 30% increased recovery and guaranteed enough sample volume for processing in all methods. In addition, the larger volume of the samples obtained with this technique enabled the Xpert® MTB/RIF molecular test for diagnosis of TB. CONCLUSIONS: The Mini-BAL showed be an acceptable alternative to ETA in this population, since these critically ill and often-immunocompromised patients are more likely to develop complications related to invasive procedures.
20hclaf6 Henipavirus infection causes severe respiratory and neurological disease in humans that can be fatal. To characterize the pathogenic mechanisms of henipavirus infection in vivo, we performed experimental infections in ferrets followed by genome-wide gene expression analysis of lung and brain tissues. The Hendra, Nipah-Bangladesh, and Nipah-Malaysia strains caused severe respiratory and neurological disease with animals succumbing around 7 days post infection. Despite the presence of abundant viral shedding, animal-to-animal transmission did not occur. The host gene expression profiles of the lung tissue showed early activation of interferon responses and subsequent expression of inflammation-related genes that coincided with the clinical deterioration. Additionally, the lung tissue showed unchanged levels of lymphocyte markers and progressive downregulation of cell cycle genes and extracellular matrix components. Infection in the brain resulted in a limited breadth of the host responses, which is in accordance with the immunoprivileged status of this organ. Finally, we propose a model of the pathogenic mechanisms of henipavirus infection that integrates multiple components of the host responses.
213c705a Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease discovered in 2019 and currently in outbreak across the world. Lung injury with severe respiratory failure is the leading cause of death in COVID-19, brought by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS- CoV-2). However, there still lacks efficient treatment for COVID-19 induced lung injury and acute respiratory failure. Inhibition of Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) caused by spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 is the most plausible mechanism of lung injury in COVID-19. We propose two candidate drugs, COL-3 (a chemically modified tetracycline) and CGP-60474 (a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor), for treating lung injuries in COVID-19, based on their abilities to reverse the gene expression patterns in HCC515 cells treated with ACE2 inhibitor and in human COVID-19 patient lung tissues. Further bioinformatics analysis shows that twelve significantly enriched pathways (P-value <0.05) overlap between HCC515 cells treated with ACE2 inhibitor and human COVID-19 patient lung tissues, including signaling pathways known to be associated with lung injury such as TNF signaling, MAPK signaling and Chemokine signaling pathways. All these twelve pathways are targeted in COL-3 treated HCC515 cells, in which genes such as RHOA, RAC2, FAS, CDC42 have reduced expression. CGP-60474 shares eleven of twelve pathways with COL-3 with common target genes such as RHOA. It also uniquely targets genes related to lung injury, such as CALR and MMP14. In summary, this study shows that ACE2 inhibition is likely part of the mechanisms leading to lung injury in COVID-19, and that compounds such as COL-3 and CGP-60474 have the potential as repurposed drugs for its treatment.
213ly4xo MOTIVATION: The protein-coding sequences of messenger RNAs are the linear template for translation of the gene sequence into protein. Nevertheless, the RNA can also form secondary structures by intramolecular base-pairing. RESULTS: We show that the nucleotide distribution within codons is biased in all taxa of life on a global scale. Thereby, RNA secondary structures that require base-pairing between the position 1 of a codon with the position 1 of an opposing codon (here named RNA secondary structure class c(1)) are under-represented. We conclude that this bias may result from the co-evolution of codon sequence and mRNA secondary structure, suggesting that RNA secondary structures are generally important in protein-coding regions of mRNAs. The above result also implies that codon position 2 has a smaller influence on the amino acid choice than codon position 1. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
21ly0wve The COVID-19 pandemic spread to almost all countries in the world within a few months, necessitating changes in medical care for patients with SARS-CoV-2 infections as well as patients with various chronic diseases. Ensuring the safety of medical staff and patients in hospitals specializing in infectious diseases is a major logistical challenge. Psoriasis patients treated with immunosuppressive medications, including those under biologic therapy, are a special group. Many scientific societies do not recommend discontinuing therapy in patients without symptoms or confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 infection despite the potentially higher risk of respiratory tract infections in this patient population. Based on our own experience, we present the organization of the biologic therapy within the unit of a Single Specialty Infectious Hospital.
21qv66gc Pentoxifylline (PTX) is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor that increases cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels, which in turn activate protein kinase, leading to a reduction in the synthesis of proinflammatory cytokines to ultimately influence the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in vitro by inhibiting angiotensin 1 receptor (AT1R) expression. The rheological, anti-inflammatory, and renin-angiotensin axis properties of PTX highlight this drug as a therapeutic treatment alternative for patients with COVID-19 by helping reduce the production of the inflammatory cytokines without deleterious effects on the immune system to delay viral clearance. Moreover, PTX can restore the balance of the immune response, reduce damage to the endothelium and alveolar epithelial cells, improve circulation, and prevent microvascular thrombosis. There is further evidence that PTX can improve ventilatory parameters. Therefore, we propose repositioning PTX in the treatment of COVID-19. The main advantage of repositioning PTX is that it is an affordable drug that is already available worldwide with an established safety profile, further offering the possibility of immediately analysing the result of its use and associated success rates. Another advantage is that PTX selectively reduces the concentration of TNF-&#945; mRNA in cells, which, in the case of an acute infectious state such as COVID-19, would seem to offer a more strategic approach.
21thxtfq Ichthyosis ­ also called fish scale disease ­ is a group of skin diseases, which are characterised by xerosis and scaling. Most commonly, the diseases are genetically inherited, but an acquired type also exists. Ichthyosis vulgaris (IV), is the most common type, affecting 1:250 individuals. Diagnosing IV can be challenging, because its clinical features are subject to great variation, ranging from mild cases with slight xerosis to severe cases with marked scaling and formation of fissures. In this review, IV and its most relevant differential diagnoses, X-linked ichthyosis, autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis and acquired ichthyosis are reviewed.
21vrjals RESUMEN La infección por el nuevo coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 (enfermedad por coronavirus 2019 -covid-19-) ha determinado la necesidad de la reorganización de muchos centros hospitalarios en el mundo. España, como uno de los epicentros de la enfermedad, ha debido asumir cambios en la práctica totalidad de su territorio. Sin embargo, y desde el inicio de la pandemia, en todos los centros que atienden urgencias quirúrgicas ha sido necesario el mantenimiento de su cobertura, aunque igualmente ha sido inevitable introducir directrices especiales de ajuste al nuevo escenario que permitan el mantenimiento de la excelencia en la calidad asistencial. Este documento desarrolla una serie de indicaciones generales para la cirugía de urgencias y la atención al politraumatizado, desarrolladas desde la literatura disponible y consensuadas por un subgrupo de profesionales desde el grupo general Cirugía-AEC-COVID19. Estas medidas van encaminadas a contemplar un riguroso control de la exposición en pacientes y profesionales, a tener en cuenta las implicaciones de la pandemia sobre diferentes escenarios perioperatorios relacionados con la urgencia y a una adaptación ajustada a la situación del centro en relación con la atención a pacientes infectados. ABSTRACT New coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 infection (coronavirus disease 2019 -covid-19-) has determined the necessity of reorganization in many centers all over the world. Spain, as an epicenter of the disease, has been forced to assume health policy changes in all the territory. However, and from the beginning of the pandemic, every center attending surgical urgencies had to guarantee the continuous coverage adopting correct measures to maintain the excellence of quality of care. This document resumes general guidelines for emergency surgery and trauma care, obtained from the available bibliography and evaluated by a subgroup of professionals designated from the general group of investigators Cirugía-AEC-COVID19 from the Spanish Association of Surgeons, directed to minimize professional exposure, to contemplate pandemic implications over different urgent perioperative scenarios and to adjust decision making to the occupational pressure caused by covid-19 patients.
223l6tgo In the setting of epidemics of communicable diseases, early initiation of epidemiological and clinical data collection and analysis and conducting relevant researches are essential to the success of epidemic containment. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), starting initially as an epidemic in China in late 2019 and now becoming a pandemic globally, poses grave challenges to the global health care systems while also provides an opportunity for studying infectious diseases in the perspective of methodology. The authors propose the evaluation methods for case reports, randomized controlled trials (RCTs), real-world evidence studies and health economics researches during an epidemic. Case reports, which are of important value for health care workers during outbreaks of infectious diseases, should be written in standard format and style and published following a strict peer review process. RCTs provides the gold standard for evaluating the effectiveness of a given treatment for the patients from the outbreaks. We review the potential challenges faced in conducting RCTs during the outbreaks. The real-world data collected from the cases in designated hospitals allow the verification of the safety and effectiveness of the intervention measures. The data from health economics research also provide important support for optimizing communicable disease prevention and control strategies. Herein we summarize the health economics research methods, study design, and technical points during the outbreaks. We recommend that clinical research and health economics research be incorporated into the prevention and control plan and measures be taken to ensure both the standards and feasibility of these studies to improve the response capacity against outbreaks of communicable diseases.
225zdqip BACKGROUND: Early warning scores (EWS) have been developed as clinical prognostication tools to identify acutely deteriorating patients. In the past few years, there has been a proliferation of studies that describe the development and validation of novel machine learning-based EWS. Systematic reviews of published studies which focus on evaluating performance of both well-established and novel EWS have shown conflicting conclusions. A possible reason is the heterogeneity in validation methods applied. In this review, we aim to examine the methodologies and metrics used in studies which perform EWS validation. METHODS: A systematic review of all eligible studies from the MEDLINE database and other sources, was performed. Studies were eligible if they performed validation on at least one EWS and reported associations between EWS scores and inpatient mortality, intensive care unit (ICU) transfers, or cardiac arrest (CA) of adults. Two reviewers independently did a full-text review and performed data abstraction by using standardized data-worksheet based on the TRIPOD (Transparent reporting of a multivariable prediction model for individual prognosis or diagnosis) checklist. Meta-analysis was not performed due to heterogeneity. RESULTS: The key differences in validation methodologies identified were (1) validation dataset used, (2) outcomes of interest, (3) case definition, time of EWS use and aggregation methods, and (4) handling of missing values. In terms of case definition, among the 48 eligible studies, 34 used the patient episode case definition while 12 used the observation set case definition, and 2 did the validation using both case definitions. Of those that used the patient episode case definition, 18 studies validated the EWS at a single point of time, mostly using the first recorded observation. The review also found more than 10 different performance metrics reported among the studies. CONCLUSIONS: Methodologies and performance metrics used in studies performing validation on EWS were heterogeneous hence making it difficult to interpret and compare EWS performance. Standardizing EWS validation methodology and reporting can potentially address this issue.
22eam8yw Mesostigmatid mites are blood-sucking parasitic mites found in wild rodent populations. Periodically they can also become a problem for laboratory rodent colonies, particularly when building construction or renovations disturb colonies of commensal (building) rodents that had been acting as hosts. Mesostigmatid mites infest both rats and mice and, unlike the more common rodent fur mites (Myobia, Myocoptes, and Radfordia sp.), can survive for long periods in the environment and travel considerable distances in search of new hosts. They easily penetrate barrier caging systems, including individually ventilated cages, thus circumventing the usual precautions to protect rodents from infection. The two mites reported in laboratory rodent colonies, Ornithonyssus bacoti and Laelaps echidnina, also bite humans and have the potential to transmit zoonotic diseases. Once the mites gain access to a colony, eradication requires elimination of commensal rodent reservoirs in addition to insecticide treatment of both the laboratory rodents and the environment. In view of the undesirability of insecticide use in the animal facility, it is advisable to investigate the effectiveness of preventive treatments, such as environmental application of insect growth regulators or silica-based products. This article summarizes available information on mesostigmatid mites and their laboratory incursions, and provides suggestions for diagnosis, treatment, and control based on the author’s experience with several outbreaks at a large academic institution.
22v3u4w9 This study aims to analyze South Korea's experience during the COVID-19 outbreak through a gendered lens. We briefly introduce the COVID-19 outbreak in Korea, scrutinize gendered vulnerability in contracting the virus, and then analyze the gendered aspects of the pandemic response in two phases: quarantine policy and mitigation policy. The authors elicit four lessons from the analysis. First, gender needs to be mainstreamed at all stages of a public health emergency response. Second, in addition to medical care, all formal and informal care work should be considered as an essential component of health care systems. Third, a people-centered approach in health governance should be prioritized to make women's voices heard at every level. Fourth, medical technology and resources to cope with pandemic should be produced and distributed in an equitable manner, acknowledging differential vulnerability and susceptibility.
230etq14 IMPORTANCE: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the disease caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has been declared a global pandemic with significant morbidity and mortality since first appearing in Wuhan, China, in late 2019. As many countries are grappling with the onset of their epidemics, pharmacotherapeutics remain lacking. The window of opportunity to mitigate downstream morbidity and mortality is narrow but remains open. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is crucial to the homeostasis of both the cardiovascular and respiratory systems. Importantly, SARS-CoV-2 utilises and interrupts this pathway directly, which could be described as the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-SARS-CoV (RAAS-SCoV) axis. There exists significant controversy and confusion surrounding how anti-hypertensive agents might function along this pathway. This review explores the current state of knowledge regarding the RAAS-SCoV axis (informed by prior studies of SARS-CoV), how this relates to our currently evolving pandemic, and how these insights might guide our next steps in an evidence-based manner. OBSERVATIONS: This review discusses the role of the RAAS-SCoV axis in acute lung injury and the effects, risks and benefits of pharmacological modification of this axis. There may be an opportunity to leverage the different aspects of RAAS inhibitors to mitigate indirect viral-induced lung injury. Concerns have been raised that such modulation might exacerbate the disease. While relevant preclinical, experimental models to date favour a protective effect of RAAS-SCoV axis inhibition on both lung injury and survival, clinical data related to the role of RAAS modulation in the setting of SARS-CoV-2 remain limited. CONCLUSION: Proposed interventions for SARS-CoV-2 predominantly focus on viral microbiology and aim to inhibit viral cellular injury. While these therapies are promising, immediate use may not be feasible, and the time window of their efficacy remains a major unanswered question. An alternative approach is the modulation of the specific downstream pathophysiological effects caused by the virus that lead to morbidity and mortality. We propose a preponderance of evidence that supports clinical equipoise regarding the efficacy of RAAS-based interventions, and the imminent need for a multisite randomised controlled clinical trial to evaluate the inhibition of the RAAS-SCoV axis on acute lung injury in COVID-19.
230p8rsf Publisher Summary This chapter describes the interactions between the different structural components of the viruses and discusses their relevance for the process of virion formation. Two key factors determine the efficiency of the assembly process: intracellular transport and molecular interactions. Many viruses have evolved elaborate strategies to ensure the swift and accurate delivery of the virion components to the cellular compartment(s) where they must meet and form (sub) structures. Assembly of viruses starts in the nucleus by the encapsidation of viral DNA, using cytoplasmically synthesized capsid proteins; nucleocapsids then migrate to the cytosol, by budding at the inner nuclear membrane followed by deenvelopment, to pick up the tegument proteins.
235qppjh AIM To investigate the association between regional brain oxygen saturation (rSO2) at hospital arrival and neurological outcomes at 90 days in patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA). METHODS The Japan-Prediction of neurological Outcomes in patients post cardiac arrest (J-POP) registry is a prospective, multicenter, cohort study to test whether rSO2 predicts neurological outcomes after OHCA. We measured rSO2 in OHCA patients immediately after hospital arrival using a near-infrared spectrometer placed on the forehead with non-blinded fashion. The primary endpoint was "neurological outcomes" at 90 days after OHCA. RESULTS EMS providers are not permitted to terminate CPR in the field in Japan, and so most patients with OHCA who are treated by EMS personnel are transported to emergency hospitals. Among 1017 OHCA patients, 672 patients including 52 comatose patients with pulses detectable (8%) and 620 cardiac arrest patients (92%) at hospital arrival were enrolled prospectively and consecutively. Twenty-nine patients with good neurological outcome had a significantly higher value of rSO2 at hospital arrival than 643 patients with poor neurological outcome (mean [±SD] 55.6±20.8% vs. 19.7±11.0%, p<0.001). Receiver operating curve analysis indicated an optimal rSO2 cutoff point of >42% for predicting good neurological outcome, with sensitivity 0.79 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.60-0.92), specificity 0.95 (95% CI, 0.93-0.96), positive predictive value, 0.41 (95% CI, 0.28-0.55), negative predictive value, 0.99 (95% CI, 0.98-1.00), and area under the curve 0.90 (95% CI, 0.88-0.92). CONCLUSION The rSO2 at hospital arrival can predict good neurological outcome at 90 days after OHCA.
2375ipkk A few animals have been suspected to be intermediate hosts of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). However, a large-scale single-cell screening of SARS-CoV-2 target cells on a wide variety of animals is missing. Here, we constructed the single-cell atlas for 11 representative species in pets, livestock, poultry, and wildlife. Notably, the proportion of SARS-CoV-2 target cells in cat was found considerably higher than other species we investigated and SARS-CoV-2 target cells were detected in multiple cell types of domestic pig, implying the necessity to carefully evaluate the risk of cats during the current COVID-19 pandemic and keep pigs under surveillance for the possibility of becoming intermediate hosts in future coronavirus outbreak. Furthermore, we screened the expression patterns of receptors for 144 viruses, resulting in a comprehensive atlas of virus target cells. Taken together, our work provides a novel and fundamental strategy to screen virus target cells and susceptible species, based on single-cell transcriptomes we generated for domesticated animals and wildlife, which could function as a valuable resource for controlling current pandemics and serve as an early warning system for coping with future infectious disease threats.
23k6j6hv Food supply chain plays a vital role in human health and food prices. Food supply chain inefficiencies in terms of unfair competition and lack of regulations directly affect the quality of human life and increase food safety risks. This work merges Hyperledger Fabric, an enterprise-ready blockchain platform with existing conventional infrastructure, to trace a food package from farm to fork using an identity unique for each food package while keeping it uncomplicated. It keeps the records of business transactions that are secured and accessible to stakeholders according to the agreed set of policies and rules without involving any centralized authority. This paper focuses on exploring and building an uncomplicated, low-cost solution to quickly link the existing food industry at different geographical locations in a chain to track and trace the food in the market.
23npkxvq Three alloherpesviruses are known to cause disease in cyprinid fish: cyprinid herpesviruses 1 and 3 (CyHV1 and CyHV3) in common carp and koi and cyprinid herpesvirus 2 (CyHV2) in goldfish. We have determined the genome sequences of CyHV1 and CyHV2 and compared them with the published CyHV3 sequence. The CyHV1 and CyHV2 genomes are 291,144 and 290,304 bp, respectively, in size, and thus the CyHV3 genome, at 295,146 bp, remains the largest recorded among the herpesviruses. Each of the three genomes consists of a unique region flanked at each terminus by a sizeable direct repeat. The CyHV1, CyHV2, and CyHV3 genomes are predicted to contain 137, 150, and 155 unique, functional protein-coding genes, respectively, of which six, four, and eight, respectively, are duplicated in the terminal repeat. The three viruses share 120 orthologous genes in a largely colinear arrangement, of which up to 55 are also conserved in the other member of the genus Cyprinivirus, anguillid herpesvirus 1. Twelve genes are conserved convincingly in all sequenced alloherpesviruses, and two others are conserved marginally. The reference CyHV3 strain has been reported to contain five fragmented genes that are presumably nonfunctional. The CyHV2 strain has two fragmented genes, and the CyHV1 strain has none. CyHV1, CyHV2, and CyHV3 have five, six, and five families of paralogous genes, respectively. One family unique to CyHV1 is related to cellular JUNB, which encodes a transcription factor involved in oncogenesis. To our knowledge, this is the first time that JUNB-related sequences have been reported in a herpesvirus.
23xfunmq An outbreak of a new coronavirus originating from Wuhan (China), responsible for a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), called SARS-CoV-2, is causing a pandemic disease called CoViD-19 (Coronavirus Disease-19), although strict containment measures and restrictions on individual travel have been taken everywhere to hinder the spread of the virus. The clinical spectrum of this infection includes, in order of lesser to greater severity, asymptomatic viremia, paucisymptomatic forms, clinical conditions characterized by respiratory failure that needs mechanical ventilation and support in an intensive care unit, systemic manifestations of infection, septic shock, and multiple organ dysfunction syndromes. There is currently no vaccine to prevent CoViD-19, but the international scientific community is intensely focused on finding a vaccine that will prevent SARS-CoV-2 transmission. In the meanwhile, to prevent hospitals from risking collapse, it is crucial to stratify patients at high risk of poor lung progression, to find effective monitoring strategies, even at home, for the positive patients and/or those highly at risk of positivity of CoViD-19. Starting from the pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the development of this infection up to the clinical characteristics of the infected patients, in this review we tried to focus on the crucial points of the infection in combination with the appropriateness of the medical intervention. We aim to offer indications of therapeutic intervention that are timely and, as far as possible, effective, targeted to the individual patient in relation to age, clinical condition and comorbidities. An early diagnosis associated with an appropriate therapeutic action in the initial stages of the disease can reduce the progression of CoViD-19 towards interstitial pneumonia, thus interfering with the number of transfers to intensive care and lethality of the pandemic in progress.
23yi8so0 Researchers routinely adopt molecular clock assumptions in conducting sequence analyses to estimate dates for viral origins in humans. We used computational methods to examine the extent to which this practice can result in inaccurate ‘retrodiction.’ Failing to account for dynamic molecular evolution can affect greatly estimating index case dates, resulting in an overestimated age for the SARS-CoV-human infection, for instance.
24h3ggqj In recent years, targeted therapy for breast cancer has received increasingly more attention. In addition to hormone receptors and human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2), the immunohistochemical detection of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) in advanced triple-negative breast cancer and the detection of mutations in the breast cancer 1 (BRCA1) or BRCA2 gene in the patient’s germline and mutations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K) pathway are currently relevant when making decisions regarding targeted therapy.
24lzevco Summary Three years after its first discovery in Jeddah Saudi Arabia, the novel zoonotic pathogen of humans, the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) continues to be a major threat to global health security. 1 Sporadic community acquired cases of MERS continue to be reported from the Middle East. The recent nosocomial outbreaks in hospitals in Seoul, Korea and at the National Guard Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia indicate the epidemic potential of MERS-CoV. Currently there are no effective anti-MERS-CoV anti-viral agents or therapeutics and MERS is associated with a high mortality rate (40%) in hospitalised patients. A large proportion of MERS patients who die have a range of pulmonary pathology ranging from pneumonia to adult respiratory distress syndrome with multi-organ failure, compounded by co-morbidities, reflecting a precarious balance of interactions between the host-immune system and MERS-CoV. Whilst we wait for new MERS-CoV specific drugs, therapeutics and vaccines to be developed, there is a need to advance a range of Host-Directed Therapies. A range of HDTs are available, including commonly used drugs with good safety profiles, which could augment host innate and adaptive immune mechanisms to MERS-CoV, modulate excessive inflammation and reduce lung tissue destruction. We discuss the rationale and potential of using Host-Directed Therapies for improving the poor treatment outcomes associated with MERS. Carefully designed randomized controlled trials will be needed to determine whether HDTs could benefit patients with MERS. The recurrent outbreaks of MERS-CoV infections at hospitals in the Middle East present unique opportunities to conduct randomized clinical trials. The time has come for a more coordinated global response to MERS and a multidisciplinary global MERS-CoV response group is required to take forward priority research agendas.
24nv490f BACKGROUND Laparoscopic total proctocolectomy (TPC) with or without ileoanal pouch is a major operation for which the traditional benefits of laparoscopy were not immediately apparent, in part due to the longer operating times. The use of energy devices has been shown to improve operative outcomes for patients who undergo laparoscopic segmental colectomies, but there are limited data for laparoscopic TPC (LTPC). METHODS All patients who underwent LTPC between January 2002 and July 2011 were identified from a prospectively maintained institutional-review-board-approved database. Univariate and multiple linear regression analyses were performed to assess the impact of electrothermal bipolar vessel sealers (EBVS) for vessel ligation on operative time. Secondary outcomes included vessel ligation failures, estimated blood loss, and other intra- and postoperative outcomes. RESULTS One hundred and forty-five patients underwent LTPC, including 126 restorative ileoanal pouch and diverting ileostomy operations and 19 TPC and end ileostomy procedures. Fifteen percent of LTPCs were totally laparoscopic, 45 % were laparoscopic-assisted, 32 % were hand-assisted, and 8 % were laparoscopic-converted cases. Laparoscopic vessel ligation was performed using EBVS (76 %), endoscopic staplers (12 %), or hybrid techniques (12 %). Vessel ligation groups were similar in demographics, body mass index, surgical indication, immunosuppression, and prior surgery. EBVS were associated with shorter median operative times (247 vs. 290 vs. 300 min, p = 0.018) and fewer vessel ligation failures (1 vs. 11 vs. 12 %, p = 0.027) compared with endoscopic staplers and hybrid techniques, respectively. There were no differences in estimated blood loss and intra-operative complications among the three groups. Length of stay, 30-day morbidity, and 30-day re-operation rates were also similar. On multiple linear regression analysis, EBVS were a significant predictor of operative time (p = 0.019). CONCLUSIONS Routine use of electrothermal bipolar vessel ligation for LTPC is associated with shorter operative time and fewer vessel ligation failures without higher risk of complications than other vessel control methods.
24viekl7 The rapid spread of SARS-CoV-2, the causative agent of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), has been accompanied by the emergence of distinct viral clades, though their clinical significance remains unclear. Here, we examined the genome sequences of 88 SARS-CoV-2 viruses from COVID-19 patients in Chicago, USA and identified three distinct phylogenetic clades. Clade 1 was most closely related to clades centered in New York, and showed evidence of rapid expansion across the USA, while Clade 3 was most closely related to those in Washington. Clade 2 was localized primarily to the Chicago area with limited evidence of expansion elsewhere. Average viral loads in the airways of patients infected with the rapidly spreading Clade 1 viruses were significantly higher than those of the poorly spreading Clade 2. These results show that multiple variants of SARS-CoV-2 are circulating in the USA that differ in their relative airway viral loads and potential for expansion.
24x0ypfx A prothrombotic coagulopathy is commonly found in critically ill COVID-19 patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). A unique feature of COVID-19 respiratory failure is a relatively preserved lung compliance and high Alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient, with pathology reports consistently demonstrating diffuse pulmonary microthrombi on autopsy, all consistent with a vascular occlusive etiology of respiratory failure rather than the more classic findings of low-compliance in ARDS. The COVID-19 pandemic is overwhelming the world's medical care capacity with unprecedented needs for mechanical ventilators and high rates of mortality once patients progress to needing mechanical ventilation, and in many environments including in parts of the United States the medical capacity is being exhausted. Fibrinolytic therapy has previously been used in a Phase 1 clinical trial that led to reduced mortality and marked improvements in oxygenation. Here we report a series of three patients with severe COVID-19 respiratory failure who were treated with tissue plasminogen activator. All three patients had a temporally related improvement in their respiratory status, with one of them being a durable response.
24zbqwa8 Abstract This research deals with the investigation of a real-life industrial problem of excessive weld spatter produced in an automated welding robot cell using gas metal arc welding process. Spatter generation was attributed to a number of sources including incorrect machine settings, surface contaminants, and erratic wire feeding. Random variation of different welding process parameters such as voltage, wire feed speed, and torch travel angle, affected spatter production, which served as a motivation to embark on a systematic study involving design of experiments. A total of ten most significant parameters were identified through a brainstorming process involving robotic cell operators, section managers, and subject matter experts. Using the selected ten parameters, preliminary experiments were conducted to determine the appropriate operating range for each process parameter that has the most significant impact on weld spatter. An Orthogonal L16 Array from Taguchi’s designs was chosen with four parameters at 4-levels, four parameters at 2-levels, and two parameters were held constant at 1-level. Following the establishment of a defined set of parameters and corresponding ranges of values, a series of designed experiments were conducted to measure the effect of process parameters on weld spatter production. During each designed experiment, six different responses were recorded that included, the weight of wire used, the weight of the weld bead deposited, the mass of spatter collected in a tray, audio signals generated, the spatter particle count using ImageJ, and the quality of the weld bead. The optimal process parameters identified in this study were of practical significance, and as such the recommended parameters were implemented in the industry.
25285u24 BACKGROUND: With the development of more rapid and sensitive detection methods based on PCR techniques, the contributions of respiratory viral infections to community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adult patients are being more and more recognized. Yet, up to now, there has been a lack of synthetic data that clearly demonstrates the incidence of respiratory viral infections in adult patients with CAP. OBJECTIVES: We intended to demonstrate the incidence of respiratory viral infections detected by PCR and real-time PCR in adult patients with CAP. METHODS: We searched PubMed and Embase for studies providing the incidence of respiratory viral infections in adult patients with CAP. We investigated potential sources of heterogeneity by a univariant metaregression analysis and calculated the combined incidence of viral infections, viral infections mixed with other pathogens and individual respiratory virus species. RESULTS: We eventually identified 23 eligible reports with a total number of 6,404 patients. Incidences ranged from 8.6 to 56.2% for overall respiratory viral infections. We noted significant heterogeneity in incidence estimates for the incidence of viral infections (Cochran's χ(2) = 269.9, p < 0.0001, I(2) = 91.8%). The combined incidence of viral infections was 22.4% (95% CI = 19.0-25.7). Incidences of viral coinfections with other pathogens ranged from 3 to 28%. A high level of heterogeneity was identified as well during the estimates for incidences of coinfections (χ(2) = 200.9, p < 0.0001, I(2) = 91.5%). The combined incidence of viral coinfections with other pathogens was 12.4% (95% CI = 9.7-15.0). Our heterogeneity analyses suggested that a lower respiratory tract sample was associated with higher overall viral incidence. Moreover, the influenza virus, rhinovirus and coronavirus were the 3 most frequently detected viral pathogens in adult patients with CAP according to our study. CONCLUSIONS: Respiratory viruses are probably crucial pathogens of adult patients with CAP, with the influenza virus being the most frequent viral pathogen identified. More than half of the viral infections are characterized as mixed infections with other pathogens.
252cvjvr OBJECTIVES To evaluate the impact of a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak in the emergency department (ED). METHODS Computerised records of all ED visits in January and May 2003 were analysed and compared, representing before and during the SARS epidemic respectively. Data were grouped into two categories. Group 1 was the indicators of impact on patients, including visitor's condition classification, number of patients that died on arrival (DOA), received cardiopulmonary resuscitation, underwent endotracheal intubation, needed mechanical ventilation, discharged against medical advice (AAD), died in the ED, and the admission rate to wards. Group 2 was the indicators of impact on the quality of medical care, including number of visits that returned within 72 hours (early returns), underwent chest radiography, upper abdomen sonography or computed tomography, and the length of stay. RESULTS There were 6650 and 3901 consecutive encounters in January and May 2003 respectively. There were significant differences on condition classifications (p = 0.000), increased rate of patients that underwent endotracheal intubation (p = 0.003), needed mechanical ventilation (p = 0.020), and admission (p = 0.000). The rate of AAD decreased significantly (p = 0.024). There was no significant difference on early returns, although the length of stay in the ED increased (p = 0.043). The number of visits that underwent chest radiological examination increased (p = 0.000) and upper abdomen sonography (p = 0.007) decreased significantly in May. CONCLUSIONS SARS had an impact on the medical service system and decreased visits by 40% in the ED. Patients visiting the ED had more severe conditions than before. The impact of SARS on quality of medical care can be minimised when adequate infection control measures are applied.
2558l7sl Introduction Osteocutaneous pedicle flap transfer from the foot can be used to "salvage" a transtibial amputation level when the severity of an injury precludes a transtibial amputation. Step 1 Preoperative Assessment If the posterior tibial artery is not palpable, obtain an angiogram to determine the vascular supply distal to the traumatic zone and to prepare for conversion to a composite free microvascular transfer. Step 2 Remove Provisional Implants Remove provisional stabilization implants and minimize surgery about the knee. Step 3 Develop the Flap The dissection about the tarsal tunnel is the critical portion of the operative technique. Step 4 Contour the Calcaneus Any deviation from perpendicular will translate to an axial deformity in the reconstructed limb. Step 5 Prepare the Proximal Part of the Tibia and Surrounding Tissues Retain viable soft tissues and bone, but resect the fibula obliquely. Step 6 Secure the Calcaneus to the Tibia Avoid varus and recurvatum malalignment. Step 7 Repair and Reconstruct the Soft Tissues The injured limb is routinely very swollen, and in some cases complete coverage requires split-thickness skin-grafting. Step 8 Postoperative Care and Rehabilitation As the initial reconstruction is sometimes extremely bulbous, continually advise the patient that the shape will improve dramatically over time with shrinkage of the limb. Results In our original study, ten men and four women with a mean age of 43.2 years (range, twenty-four to sixty-four years) underwent an osteocutaneous pedicle flap transfer with use of the ipsilateral foot for salvage to achieve a transtibial amputation level. What to Watch For IndicationsContraindicationsPitfalls & Challenges.
25bhy3w8 Feline infectious peritonitis (FIP) is a fatal disease in wild and domestic cat species. Although several drugs are expected to be useful as treatments for FIP, no drugs are available in clinical practice. In this study, we evaluated the therapeutic effect of combined use of adalimumab (an anti-human-TNF-alpha monoclonal antibody, ADA) and itraconazole (ICZ), which are presently available to veterinarians. The neutralizing activity of ADA against fTNF-alpha-induced cytotoxicity was measured in WEHI-164 cells. Ten specific pathogen-free (SPF) cats were inoculated intraperitoneally with type I FIPV KU-2. To the cats that developed FIP, ADA (10 mg/animal) was administered twice between day 0 and day 4 after the start of treatment. ICZ (50 mg/head, SID) was orally administered daily from day 0 after the start of treatment. ADA demonstrated dose-dependent neutralizing activity against rfTNF-alpha. In an animal experiment, 2 of 3 cats showed improvements in FIP clinical symptoms and blood chemistry test results, an increase in the peripheral blood lymphocyte count, and a decrease in the plasma alpha 1-AGP level were observed after the beginning of treatment. One of the cats failed to respond to treatment and was euthanized, although the viral gene level in ascites temporarily decreased after the start of treatment. ADA was found to have neutralizing activity against rfTNF-alpha. The combined use of ADA and ICZ showed a therapeutic effect for experimentally induced FIP. We consider these drugs to be a treatment option until effective anti-FIPV drugs become available.
25tcxise BACKGROUND: Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is emerging as a pathogenic coronavirus that causes a huge economic burden to the swine industry. Interaction of the viral spike (S) surface glycoprotein with the host cell receptor is recognized as the first step of infection and is the main determinant of virus tropism. The mechanisms by which neutralizing antibodies inhibit PEDV have not been defined. Isolating PEDV neutralizing antibodies are crucial to identifying the receptor-binding domains of the viral spike and elucidating the mechanism of protection against PEDV infection. METHODS: B cell hybridoma technique was used to generate hybridoma cells that secrete specific antibodies. E.coli prokaryotic expression system and Bac-to-Bac expression system were used to identify the target protein of each monoclonal antibody. qPCR was performed to analyze PEDV binding to Vero E6 cells with neutralizing antibody. RESULTS: We identified 10 monoclonal antibodies using hybridoma technology. Remarkably, 4 mAbs (designed 2G8, 2B11, 3D9, 1E3) neutralized virus infection potently, of which 2B11 and 1E3 targeted the conformational epitope of the PEDV S protein. qPCR results showed that both 2B11 and 2G8 blocked virus entry into Vero cells. CONCLUSION: The data suggested that PEDV neutralizing antibody inhibited virus infection by binding to infectious virions, which could work as a tool to find the receptor-binding domains. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1186/s12985-018-1042-3) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
25wqb8u0 Abstract European black elderberry naturally occurs in most of Europe and has been introduced into various parts of the world for fruit and flower production. Elderberry is rich in nutrients, such as carbohydrates, proteins, fats, fatty acids, organic acids, minerals, vitamins and essential oils. Elderberry also contains cyanogenic glycosides which are potentially toxic. Polyphenols, known for their free radical scavenging (antioxidant) activity, are the most important group of bioactive compounds present in elderberry in relatively high concentration. The high antioxidant activity of elderberry fruit and flowers is associated with their therapeutic properties. Elderberry has for a long time been used in folk medicine as a diaphoretic, antipyretic and diuretic agent. In recent years it was also found to have antibacterial, antiviral antidepressant and antitumour and hypoglycemic properties, and to reduce body fat and lipid concentration. Due to its health-promoting and sensory properties, elderberry is used primarily in food and pharmaceutical industry.
26ksqqpf The aim of this review was to analyze the currently available literature on single-incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) for Crohn's disease (CD) with respect to surgical indications, surgical techniques, feasibility, and possible benefits of SILS for CD. A systematic query of articles published from January 2010 to July 2018 was performed. The studies were assessed for patient's age, gender, body mass index, disease type, SILS procedure, surgical procedure, incision length, operation time, rates of conversion to open surgery, postoperative complications, mortality, length of hospital stay, and rates of reoperation. After an initial review, 11 reports were selected. The surgical techniques and instruments showed wide variation. The mean operation time for SILS tended to be shorter than that for multiport laparoscopic surgery (MLS). The reported rates of conversion to open surgery and postoperative complications were not very different from those reported for MLS. In conclusion, the present review suggests that the SILS technique may be feasible and safe for select patients with CD. However, because we reviewed only a few studies with small sample sizes, prospectively designed trials with a large number of patients are required to clarify the true benefits of SILS for CD.
26n22jbx Specific elements of viral genomes regulate interactions within host cells. Here, we calculated the secondary structure content of>2500 coronaviruses and computed>100000 human protein interactions with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). We found that the 3 and 5 prime ends are the most structured elements in the viral genome and the 5 prime end has the strongest propensity to associate with human proteins. The domain encompassing nucleotides 23000-24000 is highly conserved both at the sequence and structural level, while the region upstream varies significantly. These two sequences code for a domain of the viral protein Spike S that interacts with the human receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and has the potential to bind sialic acids. Our predictions indicate that the first 1000 nucleotides in the 5 prime end can interact with proteins involved in viral RNA processing such as double-stranded RNA specific editases and ATP-dependent RNA-helicases, in addition to other high-confidence candidate partners. These interactions, previously reported to be also implicated in HIV, reveal important information on host-virus interactions. The list of transcriptional and post-transcriptional elements recruited by SARS-CoV-2 genome provides clues on the biological pathways associated with gene expression changes in human cells.
26pcjts9 The 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV/SARS-CoV-2) originally arose as part of a major outbreak of respiratory disease centered on Hubei province, China. It is now a global pandemic and is a major public health concern. Taxonomically, SARS-CoV-2 was shown to be a Betacoronavirus (lineage B) closely related to SARS-CoV and SARS-related bat coronaviruses, and it has been reported to share a common receptor with SARS-CoV (ACE-2). Subsequently, betacoronaviruses from pangolins were identified as close relatives to SARS-CoV-2. Here, we perform structural modeling of the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein. Our data provide support for the similar receptor utilization between SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV, despite a relatively low amino acid similarity in the receptor binding module. Compared to SARS-CoV and all other coronaviruses in Betacoronavirus lineage B, we identify an extended structural loop containing basic amino acids at the interface of the receptor binding (S1) and fusion (S2) domains. We suggest this loop confers fusion activation and entry properties more in line with betacoronaviruses in lineages A and C, and be a key component in the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 with this structural loop affecting virus stability and transmission.
26pls6wf SARS-CoV-2 emerged in Wuhan in December 2019 and caused the pandemic respiratory disease, COVID-191,2. In 2003, the closely related SARS-CoV had been detected in domestic cats and a dog3. However, little is known about the susceptibility of domestic pet mammals to SARS-CoV-2. Two out of fifteen dogs from households with confirmed human cases of COVID-19 in Hong Kong SAR were found to be infected using quantitative RT-PCR, serology, sequencing the viral genome, and in one dog, virus isolation. SARS-CoV-2 RNA was detected in a 17-year-old neutered male Pomeranian from five nasal swabs collected over a 13-day period. A 2.5-year-old male German Shepherd dog had SARS CoV-2 RNA on two occasions and virus was isolated from nasal and oral swabs. Both dogs had antibody responses detected using plaque reduction neutralization assays. Viral genetic sequences of viruses from the two dogs were identical to the virus detected in the respective human cases. The animals remained asymptomatic during quarantine. The evidence suggests that these are instances of human-to-animal transmission of SARS-CoV-2. It is unclear whether infected dogs can transmit the virus to other animals or back to humans.
26savv32 OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency of respiratory pathogens in infants diagnosed with acute lower respiratory tract infections. METHODS: A prospective cross-sectional observational study was conducted in infants hospitalized with a diagnosis of acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRTI), in a tertiary care hospital in a metropolitan city of Western India. Nasopharyngeal swabs were analyzed by multiplex real time polymerase chain reaction, for 18 viruses and 3 bacteria (H. influenzae type b, C. pneumoniae and M. pneumoniae). The entire data was entered in Microsoft excel sheet and frequencies were determined. RESULTS: One hundred eligible infants were enrolled. Pathogens were detected in 82 samples, which included Respiratory syncytial viruses (RSV) A / B (35.4%), Human rhinovirus (25.6%), Adenovirus (22%), Human Parainfluenza viruses (11%), Human bocavirus (9.8), Human metapneumovirus A / B (8.5%), Influenza A (H1N1) pdm 09 (6.1%), Parechovirus (3.7%), Human coronaviruses (3.66%), Haemophilus influenzae type b (6.1%), Chlamydia pneumoniae (2.4%) and Mycoplasma pneumoniae (2.4%). Influenza A (other than H1N1), Influenza B, Human Coronavirus 229E and Enterovirus were not detected. The rate of coinfection was 34% and rhinovirus was the most common of the multiple pathogens. CONCLUSIONS: Spectrum of viral etiologies of ALRTI is highlighted. Etiological diagnosis of ALRTI would enable specific antiviral therapy, restrict antibiotic use and help in knowing burden of disease.
26yc50h3 As obligate parasites of cellular processes, viruses must take over cellular macromolecular machinery. It is also becoming clear that viruses routinely control intracellular signaling pathways through the direct or indirect control of kinases and phosphatases. This control of cellular phosphoproteins is important to promote a variety of viral processes, from control of entry to nuclear function to the stimulation of viral protein synthesis. This review focuses on the takeover of the cellular phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway by a variety of retroviruses, DNA viruses, and RNA viruses, highlighting the functions ascribed to virus activation of PI3K and Akt activity. This review also describes the role that the PI3K/Akt pathway plays in the host response, noting that it that can trigger anti- as well as proviral functions.
27l6l67n Background: To investigate the risk factors related to aggravation and clinical outcomes in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients. Methods: We performed a retrospective study on the risk factors for disease progression of cases with COVID-19. Based on the clinical types, the patients were divided into a progression group and an improvement group. Multivariable logistic regression and ROC curve analysis were performed to explore the risk factors for disease progression. Results: A total of 101 patients were included in this study; diseases progression occurred in 17 patients, 84 patients improved, 6 were transferred to intensive care unit (ICU), and 5 died. The mean time to obtain negative nucleic acid results was 12.5 ± 5.0 days. Multivariate logistic analysis indicated that age (OR, 0.104; p = .002), C-reactive protein (CRP) (OR, 0.093; p < .001) and lymphocyte count (OR, 3.397; p = .022) were risk factors for disease progression. ROC curve analysis revealed that the AUC of age, CRP and lymphocyte count for disease progression were 0.873, 0.911 and 0.817, respectively. Conclusions: Older age increased CRP and decreased lymphocyte count resulted in potential risk factors for COVID-19 progression. This may be helpful in identifying patients whose condition worsens at an early stage.
27lwa9bx PURPOSE OF REVIEW The comorbidity of mental and somatic disorders is a complicated issue, especially concerning its epidemiological perspective. Complications are usually associated with the research approach, the etiological coherence of co-occurrence, and the obscurity or absence of diagnostic criteria for mental disorders due to a general medical condition or drugs, age, etc. This review aims to investigate contemporary epidemiological data on mental and somatic comorbidity. RECENT FINDINGS The frequent co-occurrence of certain physical diseases and certain mental disorders is corroborated by contemporary epidemiological data. Cardiovascular disease, hypertension, respiratory disorders, diabetes mellitus and other metabolic disorders seem to be associated with mental disorders; the rates of occurrence, however, depend on the special characteristics of the sample. Utilization of healthcare systems and costs for patients with mental-somatic comorbidities are suggested to be higher than those for patients without comorbidities. SUMMARY Although it is generally accepted that many physical conditions have been associated with serious mental disorders, the exact nature of the relationship between them is still unclear. Various factors such as unhealthy lifestyle habits, psychotropic medication, and inadequate medical treatment or provision are implicated. Further research is required.
27p0hig6 Emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) are a significant burden on global economies and public health(1–3). Their emergence is thought to be driven largely by socio-economic, environmental and ecological factors(1–9), but no comparative study has explicitly analysed these linkages to understand global temporal and spatial patterns of EIDs. Here we analyse a database of 335 EID ‘events’ (origins of EIDs) between 1940 and 2004, and demonstrate non-random global patterns. EID events have risen significantly over time after controlling for reporting bias, with their peak incidence (in the 1980s) concomitant with the HIV pandemic. EID events are dominated by zoonoses (60.3% of EIDs): the majority of these (71.8%) originate in wildlife (for example, severe acute respiratory virus, Ebola virus), and are increasing significantly over time. We find that 54.3% of EID events are caused by bacteria or rickettsia, reflecting a large number of drug-resistant microbes in our database. Our results confirm that EID origins are significantly correlated with socio-economic, environmental and ecological factors, and provide a basis for identifying regions where new EIDs are most likely to originate (emerging disease ‘hotspots’). They also reveal a substantial risk of wildlife zoonotic and vector-borne EIDs originating at lower latitudes where reporting effort is low. We conclude that global resources to counter disease emergence are poorly allocated, with the majority of the scientific and surveillance effort focused on countries from where the next important EID is least likely to originate.
27t269pd Background Limited data are available for antiviral therapy efficacy especially for the most severe patients under mechanical ventilation suffering from Covid-19 related Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Methods Observational multicenter cohort of patients with moderate to severe Covid-19 ARDS, comparing antiviral strategies (none, hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), lopinavir/ritonavir (L/R), others (combination or remdesivir). The primary end-point was the day-28 ventilator free days (VFD), patients which died before d28 were considered as having 0 VFD. The variable was dichotomized in patients still ventilated or dead at day 28 vs patients being extubated and alive at day 28 (VFD = or > 0). Results We analyzed 376 patients (80 with standard of care (SOC), 49 treated with L/R, 197 with HCQ, and 50 others). The median number of d28-VFD was 0 (IQR 0-13) and was different across the different groups (P=0.01), the SOC patients having the highest d28-VFD. A multivariate logistic regression including antiviral strategies, showed that age (OR 0.95 CI95%:0.93-0.98), male gender (OR 0.53 CI95%:0.31-0.93), Charlson score (OR 0.85 CI95%:0.73-0.99) and plateau pressure (OR 0.94 CI95%:0.88-0.99) were associated with having 0 d28-VFD whereas P/F ratio (OR 1.005 CI95%:1.001-1.010) was associated with having > or = 1 d28-VFD (ie. being extubated and alive). Acute kidney injury (AKI) was frequent (64%), its incidence was different across the patients groups (P=0.01). In a post-hoc logistic multivariate regression apart from demographics characteristics and comorbidities, the use of L/R (administered to 81 of 376 patients) was associated with occurrence of AKI (OR 2.07 CI95%:1.17-3.66) and need for renal replacement therapy (RRT). Conclusion In this observational study of moderate to severe Covid-19 ARDS patients, we did not observed a benefit of treating patients with any specific antiviral treatment. We observed an association between L/R treatment and occurrence of AKI and need for RRT.
27v9389i Objective The present study aimed to determine the differences in outcomes between natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (NAVH) and conventional laparoscopy-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH). Methods We retrospectively reviewed the charts of patients who between July 2012 and September 2015, were diagnosed as having benign uterine disease such as uterine myoma, endometriosis, or adenomyosis and managed via NAVH or LAVH in a single-center (Eulji University Hospital). Data such as age, body weight, height, parity, operation time, intra/post-operative complications, and uterus weight were obtained from the clinical charts. NAVH and LAVH recipients were matched 1:3 in terms of baseline characteristics, and the 2 groups were compared regarding surgical outcomes. Results Of the 160 patients with benign uterine disease included in the present study. Forty received NAVH and remaining 120 received LAVH. There were significant differences between the groups regarding operation time and hemoglobin change. Notably, although the operation time was shorter for LAVH, hemoglobin change was lower for NAVH. Additionally, although maximum hospitalization duration was shorter for LAVH, the average length of hospitalization was similar between NAVH and LAVH. There were no significant differences between the groups in terms of other variables. Conclusion NAVH may become a new alternative surgical method of choice for hysterectomy, as it represents a clinically feasible and safe approach; moreover is superior to LAVH in terms of bleeding loss.
281fcjgy In February 2014, porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) was identified in the United States. We developed a PDCoV real-time reverse transcription PCR that identified PDCoV in 30% of samples tested. Four additional PDCoV genomes from the United States were sequenced; these had ≈99%–100% nt similarity to the other US PDCoV strains.
287cumd1 High-throughput screening (HTS) is a well-established approach for tumor-specific drug development because of its high efficiency and customizable selection of antineoplastic drugs. However, there is still a lack of an appropriate cell-based HTS specific for migratory cancer cells. In the study presented here, we created a novel assay (mHTS): a single-cell-level screening method targeting migratory cancer cells and can be applied in a high-throughput manner. This mHTS platform is based on microchannel devices (providing physical confinement during cell migration and limit migrating cells' proliferation rate) assembled 96-well plate (fitting to HTS manner). To determine the feasibility of this assay, we quantified the anti-migratory and anti-viability effects of several molecules (Cytochalasin D, Doxorubicin and AZD-6244) on migrating (creeping inside microchannel) glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) cells. After analyzing migration screening data that was collected on a single-cell-level, we were able to compare those drug's effects on cancer cells' migration velocity and uncovered the migration inhibiting potential of AZD (500nM and 1000nM). Viability data based on single-cell-level screening also allowed us to further understand the same drug's different lethality toward migrating and normal 2D cultured cancer cells. The Pre-classification of subpopulations enables us to study the heterogeneity of cancer and ensures our method's feasibility for a high-throughput manner. All these results proved our mHTS platform is suitable for single-cell-level anti-migration drug screening and has potential feasibility in promoting the development of anti-migratory-cancer-drug in a high-throughput manner.
289wn215 Abstract Alternatives to efficient viral vectors in gene therapy are desired because of their poor safety profiles. Chitosan is a promising non-viral nucleotide delivery vector because of its biocompatibility, biodegradability, low immunogenicity and ease of manufacturing. Since the transfection efficiency of chitosan polyplexes is relatively low compared to viral counterparts, there is an impetus to gain a better understanding of the structure–performance relationship. Recent progress in preparation and characterisation has enabled coupling analysis of chitosans structural parameters that has led to increased TE by tailoring of chitosan's structure. In this review, we summarize the recent advances that have lead to a more rational design of chitosan polyplexes. We present an integrated review of all major areas of chitosan-based transfection, including preparation, chitosan and polyplexes physicochemical characterisation, in vitro and in vivo assessment. In each, we present the obstacles to efficient transfection and the strategies adopted over time to surmount these impediments.
28nv3b8a A cladistic analysis of 23 extant species of the deep‐sea pedunculate cirripede family Scalpellidae was undertaken, based on 61 shell plate characters, and taking the Jurassic–Cretaceous scalpellomorph genus C retiscalpellum as an out‐group. The consensus tree shows progressive morphological change from basal to more derived taxa, but a derived group is marked by major morphological innovation, including 27 character state changes that permit subdivision of the family into two sharply demarcated clades – the more basal group is here placed within a redefined Scalpellinae (A rcoscalpellum, A rcuatoscalpellum gen. nov., D iotascalpellum gen. nov., G raviscalpellum, R egioscalpellum gen. nov., and S calpellum), and a more derived group named A migdoscalpellinae subfam. nov. that shows numerous progressive trends in morphology, permitting the recognition of three genera (A migdoscalpellum, C atherinum, and W eltnerium). The phylogeny is independently supported by a recently published multiple DNA marker‐based molecular phylogeny. The more basal Scalpellinae appeared in the Aptian (Early Cretaceous, 120 Mya), and derived Amigdoscalpellinae were already present by the Campanian (Late Cretaceous, 78 Mya), represented by C atherinum anglicum sp. nov. and A migdoscalpellum bellulum from the UK Chalk. Specialized receptacles to accommodate dwarf males in the apical interior of the scutum evolved at least three times during the history of the scalpellids. © 2015 The Linnean Society of London
294og1hf Liquorice foliage
2abx731f End of April 2020, French clinicians observed an increase in cases presenting with paediatric inflammatory multisystem syndrome (PIMS). Nationwide surveillance was set up and demonstrated temporospatial association with the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) epidemic for 156 reported cases as at 17 May: 108 were classified as confirmed (nâ¯=â¯79), probable (nâ¯=â¯16) or possible (nâ¯=â¯13) post-COVID-19 PIMS cases. A continuum of clinical features from Kawasaki-like disease to myocarditis was observed, requiring intensive care in 67% of cases.
2assnfk2 OBJECTIVE: To determine whether bovine surfactant given in cases of severe pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) improves oxygenation. DESIGN: Single-center study with 19 patients, followed by a multicenter randomized comparison of surfactant with a standardized treatment algorithm. Primary endpoint PaO(2)/FIO(2) at 48 h, secondary endpoints: PaO(2)/FIO(2) at 2, 4, 12, and 24 h, survival, survival without rescue, days on ventilator, subgroups analyzed by analysis of variance to identify patients who might benefit from surfactant SETTING: Multicenter study in 19 reference centers for ARDS. PATIENTS: Children after the 44th postconceptional week and under 14 years old, admitted for at least 4 h, ventilated for 12–120 h, and without heart failure or chronic lung disease. In the multicenter study 35 patients were recruited; 20 were randomized to the surfactant group and 15 to the nonsurfactant group. Decreasing recruitment of patients led to a preliminary end of this study. INTERVENTIONS: Administration of 100 mg/kg bovine surfactant intratracheally under continuous ventilation and PEEP, as soon as the PaO(2)/FIO(2) ratio dropped to less than 100 for 2 h (in the pilot study increments of 50 mg/kg as long as the PaO(2)/FIO(2) did not increase by 20%). A second equivalent dose within 48 h was permitted. RESULTS: In the pilot study the PaO(2)/FIO(2) increased by a mean of 100 at 48 h (n=19). A higher PaO(2)/FIO(2) ratio was observed in the surfactant group 2 h after the first dose (58 from baseline vs. 9), at 48 h there was a trend towards a higher ratio (38 from baseline vs. 22). The rate of rescue therapy was significantly lower in the surfactant group. Outcome criteria were not affected by a second surfactant dose (n=11). A significant difference in PaO(2)/FIO(2) in favor of surfactant at 48 h was found in the subgroup with an initial PaO(2)/FIO(2) ratio higher than 65 and in patients without pneumonia. CONCLUSIONS: Surfactant therapy in severe ARDS improves oxygenation immediately after administration. This improvement is sustained only in the subgroup of patients without pneumonia and that with an initial PaO(2)/FIO(2) ratio higher than 65
2au6bzai During the last months the Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-2019) has been recognized as a global threat. Transmission of the infection has rapidly increased in Europe as well as in Greece, living behind a huge number of deaths. During this situation an analysis of the spread of the disease must be undertaken and characteristics of the virus must be recognized. For the analysis of the impact of the disease in the population during this time period, epidemiological indexes have been introduced.
2b2rnkpz Background. An international spread of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection has attracted global attention. ZIKV is conveyed by a mosquito vector, Aedes species, which also acts as the vector species of dengue and chikungunya viruses. Methods. Arrival time of ZIKV importation (i.e., the time at which the first imported case was diagnosed) in each imported country was collected from publicly available data sources. Employing a survival analysis model in which the hazard is an inverse function of the effective distance as informed by the airline transportation network data, and using dengue and chikungunya virus transmission data, risks of importation and local transmission were estimated. Results. A total of 78 countries with imported case(s) have been identified, with the arrival time ranging from 1 to 44 weeks since the first ZIKV was identified in Brazil, 2015. Whereas the risk of importation was well explained by the airline transportation network data, the risk of local transmission appeared to be best captured by additionally accounting for the presence of dengue and chikungunya viruses. Discussion. The risk of importation may be high given continued global travel of mildly infected travelers but, considering that the public health concerns over ZIKV infection stems from microcephaly, it is more important to focus on the risk of local and widespread transmission that could involve pregnant women. The predicted risk of local transmission was frequently seen in tropical and subtropical countries with dengue or chikungunya epidemic experience.
2bikuwwg Effective policy making based on ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is an urgent issue. We present a mathematical model describing the viral infection dynamics, which reveals two transmissibility parameters influenced by the management strategies in the area for control of the current pandemic. The parameters readily yield the peak infection rate and means for flattening the curve. Model parameters are shown to be correlated to different management strategies by employing machine learning enabling the comparison among different strategies. Treatment of population data with the model shows that restricted non-essential business closure, school closing and strictures on mass gathering influence the spread of infection. While a rational strategy for initiation of an economic reboot would call for a wider perspective of the local economics, the model can speculate on its timing based on the status of the infection as reflected by its potential for an unacceptably renewed viral onslaught.
2bo8z52j Global health has become an increasingly prominent component of foreign policy in the last decade. The term health diplomacy has been used to describe this growing interface between foreign policy and global health, and it encompasses both the concept of using health to further foreign policy objectives as well as the idea that diplomatic tools can be helpful for attaining public health goals. The Chinese presence in Africa has grown in the last 15 years, generating increased interest in Sino-African relations. While much has been written in recent years about the Chinese presence in Africa, the growing numbers of Africans in China have attracted considerably less attention. Many are small-scale traders and might be expected to face many of the health challenges common among foreign migrants, but their health needs have been largely unrecognised. In this paper, we consider how a health diplomacy approach could be applied to African migrants in China, and the potential advantages and limitations of this strategy. We identify areas of overlap between public health, trade and foreign policy goals that can be emphasised to generate support for improved services for African migrants in China and to engage partners from a diversity of sectors.
2bpidscx Covid-19 is pandemic to which the world is fighting. Various precautionary measures are being imposed all over the world which is affecting the routine life of an individual and also the economy worldwide. Although, a definite vaccine is still not known to medical science but they are able to distinguish Covid-19 from the other types of flu. Presently this is being done by detecting the SARS-CoV-2 virus using RT-PCR technique as recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) (WHO, Geneva, 2020). Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) is a nucleic acid amplification test that converts the RNA into DNA and subsequently amplifies the specific DNA targets. This method was already being employed to detect the severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV) (Emery et al. in Emerg Infect Dis 10(2):311, 2004). The entire process of DNA amplification takes place in three steps: denaturation, annealing, and extension for which the sample is required to be maintained at constant temperatures of 95, 55 and 72 °C, respectively. This article introduces the technology to achieve a constant temperature which can be tweaked to develop on-chip RT-PCR.
2c381u4v Background The COVID-19 disease has been spreading for more than four months in China and been pronounced as a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO). As an urgent public health crisis, it has severe physical and psychological impacts on human. The related experience and mental health on individuals and society during the pandemic can be devastating and has lasting impact. Objective To investigate the psychological stress and gender difference responding to the threat of COVID-19 and relevant factors. Methods A cross-sectional population-based study using online questionnaires via a social media software, WeChat, from 20th to 27th Feb, 2020. Psychological stress was measured by visual analogue scale (VAS). The relevant factors included demographics, the epidemic and living status characteristics related to COVID-19, psychological status, the needs of psychological support services, and psychological resilience. Psychological responses to depression, anxiety were also measured. Results Total 3088 questionnaires from 32 provinces in China were collected online. The average score of psychological stress was 3.4. The risk factors related to psychological stress included: female, [≤]45 years old, higher education, farmer/worker/clerical and business/service, unemployed, more diseases, uncertainty local epidemic status, close contact or completed a medical observation, higher desire for knowledge about the COVID-19, the diseases, psychological, economic difficulties during the epidemic. The protect factors included: frequently contacting with colleagues, calm mood, and high psychological resilience. There were gender differences on stress, the adaption to current living/working status, the coping strategy for heating, and the psychological support service needs. Conclusion The stress, anxiety and depression were mainly related to gender, age, education, and occupation during the epidemic of COVID-19. It suggested that we should make appropriate control measures and provide different psychological supports according to different population characteristics.
2cgpfdnv The great majority of globally circulating pathogens go undetected, undermining patient care and hindering outbreak preparedness and response. To enable routine surveillance and comprehensive diagnostic applications, there is a need for detection technologies that can scale to test many samples1-3 while simultaneously testing for many pathogens4-6. Here, we develop Combinatorial Arrayed Reactions for Multiplexed Evaluation of Nucleic acids (CARMEN), a platform for scalable, multiplexed pathogen detection. In the CARMEN platform, nanolitre droplets containing CRISPR-based nucleic acid detection reagents7 self-organize in a microwell array8 to pair with droplets of amplified samples, testing each sample against each CRISPR RNA (crRNA) in replicate. The combination of CARMEN and Cas13 detection (CARMEN-Cas13) enables robust testing of more than 4,500 crRNA-target pairs on a single array. Using CARMEN-Cas13, we developed a multiplexed assay that simultaneously differentiates all 169 human-associated viruses with at least 10 published genome sequences and rapidly incorporated an additional crRNA to detect the causative agent of the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic. CARMEN-Cas13 further enables comprehensive subtyping of influenza A strains and multiplexed identification of dozens of HIV drug-resistance mutations. The intrinsic multiplexing and throughput capabilities of CARMEN make it practical to scale, as miniaturization decreases reagent cost per test by more than 300-fold. Scalable, highly multiplexed CRISPR-based nucleic acid detection shifts diagnostic and surveillance efforts from targeted testing of high-priority samples to comprehensive testing of large sample sets, greatly benefiting patients and public health9-11.
2co2fmlu Abstract Noroviruses are RNA viruses that belong to the Genus Norovirus, Family Caliciviridae, and infect human beings and several animal species, including cattle. Bovine norovirus infections have been detected in cattle of a range of different ages throughout the world. Currently there is no suitable cell culture system for these viruses and information on their pathogenesis is limited. Molecular and serological tests have been developed, but are complicated by the high genetic and antigenic diversity of bovine noroviruses. Bovine noroviruses can be detected frequently in faecal samples of diarrhoeic calves, either alone or in association with other common enteric pathogens, suggesting a role for these viruses in the aetiology of calf enteritis.
2cqtb4l7 Abstract Background and Objective:The COVID-19 can cause severe pneumonia and is estimated to have a high impact on the healthcare system. Early diagnosis is crucial for correct treatment in order to possibly reduce the stress in the healthcare system. The standard image diagnosis tests for pneumonia are chest X-ray (CXR) and computed tomography (CT) scan. Although CT scan is the gold standard, CXR are still useful because it is cheaper, faster and more widespread. This study aims to identify pneumonia caused by COVID-19 from other types and also healthy lungs using only CXR images. Methods:In order to achieve the objectives, we have proposed a classification schema considering the following perspectives: i) a multi-class classification; ii) hierarchical classification, since pneumonia can be structured as a hierarchy. Given the natural data imbalance in this domain, we also proposed the use of resampling algorithms in the schema in order to re-balance the classes distribution. We observed that, texture is one of the main visual attributes of CXR images, our classification schema extract features using some well-known texture descriptors and also using a pre-trained CNN model. We also explored early and late fusion techniques in the schema in order to leverage the strength of multiple texture descriptors and base classifiers at once. To evaluate the approach, we composed a database, named RYDLS-20, containing CXR images of pneumonia caused by different pathogens as well as CXR images of healthy lungs. The classes distribution follows a real-world scenario in which some pathogens are more common than others. Results:The proposed approach tested in RYDLS-20 achieved a macro-avg F1-Score of 0.65 using a multi-class approach and a F1-Score of 0.89 for the COVID-19 identification in the hierarchical classification scenario. Conclusions:As far as we know, the top identification rate obtained in this paper is the best nominal rate obtained for COVID-19 identification in an unbalanced environment with more than three classes. We must also highlight the novel proposed hierarchical classification approach for this task, which considers the types of pneumonia caused by the different pathogens and lead us to the best COVID-19 recognition rate obtained here.
2d2h8dd1 BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is now a global pandemic. It is unclear to radiotherapy practitioners how to carry out radiotherapy during the epidemic. PATIENTS AND METHODS: After the outbreak of COVID-19, our Institute established measures for the prevention and control of COVID-19, and continues to treat patients according to these measures. The Radiotherapy Department has been divided into a clean zone and a semi-contaminated zone, and corresponding personal protective equipment is used in these zones. The temperature of patients and their escorts, and history of fever are assessed daily. Special procedures are performed during radiotherapy setup and intracavitary brachytherapy. RESULTS: Over a period of 2 months, 655 patients were treated in the Department. Sixteen patients with fever were identified and no patient undergoing radiotherapy or medical staff have been infected with COVID-19. CONCLUSION: Our protective measures were found to be effective and can be used as a reference in places where COVID-19 situations are not markedly serious.
2dbpm0nt BACKGROUND: Amino-terminal signal peptides (SPs) are short regions that guide the targeting of secretory proteins to the correct subcellular compartments in the cell. They are cleaved off upon the passenger protein reaching its destination. The explosive growth in sequencing technologies has led to the deposition of vast numbers of protein sequences necessitating rapid functional annotation techniques, with subcellular localization being a key feature. Of the myriad software prediction tools developed to automate the task of assigning the SP cleavage site of these new sequences, we review here, the performance and reliability of commonly used SP prediction tools. RESULTS: The available signal peptide data has been manually curated and organized into three datasets representing eukaryotes, Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. These datasets are used to evaluate thirteen prediction tools that are publicly available. SignalP (both the HMM and ANN versions) maintains consistency and achieves the best overall accuracy in all three benchmarking experiments, ranging from 0.872 to 0.914 although other prediction tools are narrowing the performance gap. CONCLUSION: The majority of the tools evaluated in this study encounter no difficulty in discriminating between secretory and non-secretory proteins. The challenge clearly remains with pinpointing the correct SP cleavage site. The composite scoring schemes employed by SignalP may help to explain its accuracy. Prediction task is divided into a number of separate steps, thus allowing each score to tackle a particular aspect of the prediction.
2dfnjcqd BACKGROUND: Over the last years, porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) has caused devastating enteric diseases in the US and several countries in Asia, while outbreaks in Europe have only been reported sporadically since the 1980s. At present, only insufficient information is available on currently circulating PEDV strains in Europe and their impact on the European swine industry. In this case report, we present epidemic outbreaks of porcine epidemic diarrhea in three farms in South-Western Germany. CASE PRESENTATION: Epidemic outbreaks of diarrhea affecting pigs of all age groups were reported in three farms, one fattening farm and two piglet producing farms, in South-Western Germany between May and November 2014. In the fattening farm yellowish, watery diarrhea without evidence of mucus or blood was associated with a massive reduction of feed consumption. Severity of clinical signs and mortality in young suckling pigs varied significantly between the two affected sow farms. While mortality in suckling piglets reached almost 70 % in one sow herd, no increase in suckling piglet mortality was observed in the second sow farm. In all three cases, PEDV was confirmed in feces and small intestines by RT-qPCR. Phylogenetic analyses based on full-length PEDV genomes revealed high identity among strains from all three herds. Moreover, the German strains showed very high nucleotide identity (99.4 %) with a variant of PEDV (OH851) that was isolated in the United States in January 2014. This strain with insertions and deletions in the S-gene (so called INDEL strains) was reported to show lower virulence. Slightly lower identities were found with other strains from the US and Asia. CONCLUSION: Phylogenetic information on the distribution of PEDV strains in Europe is severely lacking. In this case report we demonstrate that acute outbreaks of PEDV occurred in southern Germany in 2014. Current strains were clearly different from isolates found in the 1980s and were closely related to a PEDV variant found in the US in 2014. Moreover, the present case report indicates that variant strains of PEDV, containing insertions and deletions in the S gene, which were reported to be of lower virulence, might be able to cause high mortality in suckling piglets.
2dg7njki Abstract Mobile phones (MPs) are potential reservoirs of nosocomial bacteria, but few data are available concerning viruses. We aimed to evaluate the presence of virus RNA from epidemic viruses including metapneumovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, influenza viruses, rotavirus (RV) and norovirus on the MPs used by healthcare workers (HCWs) and to relate it to hygiene measures. An anonymous behavioural questionnaire about MP use at hospital was administered to the HCWs of four adult and paediatric departments of a university hospital. After sampling personal (PMP) and/or professional MPs (digital enhanced cordless telephone, DECT), virus RNAs were extracted and amplified by one-step real-time reverse transcription–quantitative PCR. The molecular results were analysed in a masked manner in relation to the behavioural survey. Questionnaires from 114 HCWs (35 senior physicians, 30 residents, 32 nurses, 27 nurses' assistants) working either in adult (n = 58) or paediatric (n = 56) departments were analysed. Medical personnel used their PMP more frequently than paramedical HCWs (33/65 vs. 10/59, p <0.001). MPs were used during care more frequently in adult wards than in paediatric ones (46/58 vs. 27/56, p <0.001). Virus RNA was detected on 42/109 (38.5%) collected MPs, with RV found on 39, respiratory syncytial virus on three and metapneumovirus on one. The presence of virus RNA was significantly associated with MPs from the paediatric HCWs (p <0.001). MPs routinely used in hospital, even during care, can host virus RNA, especially RV. Promotion of frequent hand hygiene before and after MP use, along with frequent cleaning of MPs, should be encouraged.
2dj7xxq3 Abstract Chapter 10 covers the administrative and legal aspects of biosecurity, which include international treaties, laws, statutes, regulations, and government directives aimed at reducing the threat due to the biological agents and enabling enforcers to deal with those that use them with ill intentions. These administrative measures have helped define programs and strengthen biodefense and biosecurity all over the globe. The aim of this chapter is to discuss the most relevant documents in hopes that the reader will appreciate the authority and framework given to officials by these measures. The chapter is not written for legal professionals. Rather, it is written for emergency management and public health professionals that may have to apply the rules of law in everyday situations. Care should be taken to consult a legal professional before utilizing any of the concepts related to public health law.
2dje7ts9 Abstract Objective Since December 2019, coronavirus disease (COVID-19) emerged in Wuhan. However, the characteristics and risk factors associated with disease severity, unimprovement and mortality are unclear. Methods All consecutive patients diagnosed with COVID-19 admitted to the Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University from January 11 to February 6, 2020 were enrolled in this retrospective cohort study. Results A total of 663 COVID-19 patients were included in this study. Among those, 247 (37.3%) had at least one kind of chronic disease. A total of 0.5% (n=3) of patients were diagnosed with mild COVID-19, while 37.8% (251/663), 47.5% (315/663), and 14.2% (94/663) were in moderate, severe, and critical condition, respectively. In our hospital during follow-up, 251 of 663 (37.9%) patients were improved and 25 patients died, leading to a mortality rate of 3.77%. Older patients (>60 years old) and those with chronic diseases were prone to have severe and critical COVID-19 conditions, show unimprovement, and die (P < 0.001, < 0.001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified being male (OR = 0.486, 95% CI 0.311-0.758; P = 0.001), having severe COVID-19 conditions (OR = 0.129, 95% CI 0.082-0.201; P < 0.001), expectoration (OR = 1.796, 95% CI 1.062-3.036; P = 0.029), muscle ache (OR = 0.309, 95% CI 0.153-0.626; P = 0.001), and decreased albumin (OR = 1.929, 95% CI 1.199-3.104; P = 0.007) were associated with unimprovement in COVID-19 patients. Conclusion Being male, in severe COVID-19 conditions, expectoration, muscle ache, and decreased albumin were independent risk factors which influence the improvement of COVID-19 patients.
2dv3qced The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has infected several millions and killed more than quarter of a million worldwide to date. Important questions have remained unanswered: why some patients develop severe disease, while others do not; and what roles do genetic variabilities play in the individual immune response to this viral infection. Here, we discuss the critical role T cells play in the orchestration of the antiviral response underlying the pathogenesis of the disease, COVID-19. We highlight the scientific rationale for comprehensive and longitudinal TCR analyses in COVID-19 and reason that analyzing TCR repertoire in COVID-19 patients would reveal important findings that may explain the outcome disparity observed in these patients. Finally, we provide a framework describing the different strategies, the advantages, and the challenges involved in obtaining useful TCR repertoire data to advance our fight against COVID-19.
2dwjb964 In this paper we describe an isothermal rolling-circle amplification (RCA) protocol to detect gene point mutations on chips. The method is based on an allele-specific oligonucleotide circularization mediated by a special DNA ligase. The probe is circularized when perfect complementary sequences between the probe oligonucleotide and HIV cDNA gene. Mismatches around the ligation site can prevent probe circularization. The circularized probe (C-probe) can be amplified by rolling circle amplification to generate multimeric singlestranded DNA (ssDNA) under isothermal conditions. There are four sequence regions to bind respectively with fluorescent probe, RCA primer, solid probe and HIV cDNA template in the C-probe which we designed. These ssDNA products are hybridized with fluorescent probes and solid probes which are immobilized on a glass slide composing a regular microarray pattern. The fluorescence signals can be monitored by a scanner in the presence of HIV cDNA templates, whereas the probes cannot be circularized and signal of fluorescence cannot be found. The RCA array has capability of high-throughput detection of the point mutation and the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). The development of C-probe-based technologies offers a promising prospect for situ detection, microarray, molecular diagnosis, single nucleotide polymorphism, and whole genome amplification.
2e8un19a Abstract With technological developments in manufacturing fields, many advanced materials and alloys have been introduced to fulfill industrial requirements. One of such type of advanced materials, Inconel 625 possesses superior materialistic properties and finds number of industrial applications in Aerospace, Marine, Petro-chemical and Solar power stations etc. However, machining and finishing of Inconel 625 components are still remain difficult tasks to deals with. A recently developed finishing process: Magnetic Abrasive Finishing (MAF) process has been experimented to finish Inconel 625 surfaces but this process is not much effective to finish and machine Inconel 625 work surfaces. In present work, Chemically assisted Magnetic Abrasive Finishing (CMAF) process has been experimented for simultaneous internal and external surface finishing of Inconel 625 tubes. An indigenous magnetic tool has been developed using Nd-Fe-B permanent magnets. Experiments have been designed by using Response Surface Methodology (RSM). Effect of five input process parameters i.e. processing time, surface rotational speed, weight percentage (Wt %age) of abrasives, chemical concentration and abrasive size on the material removal (MR) has been analyzed. Experimental Results proves that selected input process parameters have significant effect on material removal (MR). Material is uniformly removed from both internal and external surface of Inconel 625 tubes. Surface microstructure has been analyzed using scanning electron microscopy.
2eaurb7b Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) continues to ravage health and economic metrics globally, including progress in maternal and child nutrition. Although there has been focus on rising rates of childhood wasting in the short term, maternal and child undernutrition rates are also likely to increase as a consequence of COVID-19 and its impacts on poverty, coverage of essential interventions, and access to appropriate nutritious foods. Key sectors at particular risk of collapse or reduced efficiency in the wake of COVID-19 include food systems, incomes, and social protection, health care services for women and children, and services and access to clean water and sanitation. This review highlights key areas of concern for maternal and child nutrition during and in the aftermath of COVID-19 while providing strategic guidance for countries in their efforts to reduce maternal and child undernutrition. Rooted in learnings from the exemplars in Global Health's Stunting Reduction Exemplars project, we provide a set of recommendations that span investments in sectors that have sustained direct and indirect impact on nutrition. These include interventions to strengthen the food-supply chain and reducing food insecurity to assist those at immediate risk of food shortages. Other strategies could include targeted social safety net programs, payment deferrals, or tax breaks as well as suitable cash-support programs for the most vulnerable. Targeting the most marginalized households in rural populations and urban slums could be achieved through deploying community health workers and supporting women and community members. Community-led sanitation programs could be key to ensuring healthy household environments and reducing undernutrition. Additionally, several COVID-19 response measures such as contact tracing and self-isolation could also be exploited for nutrition protection. Global health and improvements in undernutrition will require governments, donors, and development partners to restrategize and reprioritize investments for the COVID-19 era, and will necessitate data-driven decision making, political will and commitment, and international unity.
2el11d1g Brunei Darussalam is a small equatorial country of 5,765 square kilometers that lies on the north-west coast of the island of Borneo. An affluent nation, its economy is based mostly on oil and gas. Brunei’s GDP per capita of US$50,117 places the country fifth highest on this index internationally (International Monetary Fund, 2010). The population of Brunei is about 398,000, with Malays, who are Muslims, forming the majority (just under 67% of the country’s people) (Prime Minister’s Office, 2008). The annual population growth rate is just over 2.0%; life expectancy is 75 years (Central Intelligence Agency, 2010).
2ep6dydx OBJECTIVE To describe the epidemiologic characteristics of Kawasaki syndrome (KS) and to estimate national KS incidence rates among children in Denmark. METHODS A retrospective population-based study using hospital discharge records with a KS diagnosis for children younger than 15 years selected from the Danish National Hospital Register for 1981-2004. Incidence rates were calculated using the number of KS patients and corresponding census data. RESULTS During 1981-2004, 360 children younger than 15 years were hospitalized with KS in Denmark, with 73% younger than 5 years. In this age group, the average annual incidence of KS gradually increased from 1981 to 1999 and thereafter stabilized at 4.5 to 5.0 per 100,000 person-years. The incidence was greater for boys than for girls (RR = 1.6, 95% CI = 1.2-2.0) and was highest among infants younger than 1 year (4.5), declining with increasing age (P = 0.03). However, the age-specific decline in incidence was only observed for boys, whereas the incidence for girls remained unchanged by age. The median length of hospital stay was 12 days, and the incidence peaked in the winter months. CONCLUSIONS Major epidemiologic characteristics identified among Danish childhood KS are consistent with those described in previous studies, such as highest incidence among young children and winter-seasonality. The KS incidence rate among children younger than 5 years in Denmark increased steadily during the early study period (coinciding with global recognition of KS) and seems to have stabilized from 1998-1999 onwards. Although the incidence among Danish children was lower than that reported for several other European countries, differences in methodology challenge definite comparisons.
2eqbcgym Abstract The world is reeling under the crisis caused by corona virus disease (COVID-19), print, electronic and social media are flooded with numerous advisories issued by governments and other national & international agencies. While all this is being done with best of intentions so as to contain the spread of this viral disease, this is causing a significant negative impact on mental health of people specially person of obsessive-compulsive disorder with fear of contamination and excessive washing of hands.
2f1c6h4q The outbreak of COVID-19 across the world has posed unprecedented and global challenges on multiple fronts. Most of the vaccine and drug development has focused on the spike proteins and viral RNA-polymerases. Using the bioinformatics and structural modeling approach, we modeled the structure of the envelope (E)-protein of novel SARS-CoV-2. The E-protein of this virus shares sequence similarity with that of SARS-CoV-1, and is highly conserved in the N-terminal regions. Incidentally, compared to spike proteins, E proteins demonstrate lower disparity and mutability among the isolated sequences. Using homology modeling, we found that the most favorable structure could function as a gated proton channel. Combining pocket estimation and docking with water, we determined that GLU 8 and ASN 15 in the N-terminal region were in close proximity to form H-bonds. Additionally, two distinct “core” structures were visible, the hydrophobic core and the central core, which may regulate the opening/closing of the channel. We propose this as a mechanism of viral proton channeling activity which may play a critical role in viral infection. In addition, it provides a structural basis and additional avenues for LAV development and generating therapeutic interventions against the virus. Significance Statement Structural modeling of the novel SARS-CoV-2 envelope protein (E-protein) demonstrating its possible proton channeling activity
2f9zyqko During the Covid-19 pandemic, many countries around the world are considering whether and how to provide liability protection to front-line healthcare staff. The guiding principle of liability protection for physicians and others is to ensure that, in a serious emergency situation, health professionals can devote themselves exclusively to their work and to patient care, without the fear of future claims for unforeseeable, but above all unavoidable, injury, loss and damage caused by their conduct. Great care is needed to balance the interests and rights of all those involved. Liability protection could have risky consequences with the final result that doctors will not be protected, but institutions such as health facilities will be even if they were in fact responsible for foreseeable and avoidable damage.
2frdhhnm Abstract Methoxy and tert-butyl substituted carboxamide, carboxylic acid and hydrazone Schiff base groups have been assembled into our newly designed fluorenone based ligands and prepared coordination compounds of some first row transition metals and characterized thoroughly with spectroscopic (1H and 13C NMR, IR, GC–MS, UV–Vis), analytical, TGA and molar conductance measurements. The stoichiometry of all the metal complexes is found to be 1: 2 (M: L2) with the general formula, [M(L)2], where L is a singly deprotonated ligand and the geometry of all the metal complexes is found to be octahedral. Ligands and their metal complexes successfully cleaved the pBR322 plasmid DNA and in case of anticancer activity against MCF–7 (human breast adenocarcinoma) cell line, the synthesized compounds found to exhibit excellent activity with prominent apoptotic effect which is characterized by cell shrinkage, cell breakage and turgidity and results were compared with the standard drug cisplatin. Very significant anticancer activity was observed for compounds L1H, Cu(L1)2, Cu(L2)2, Ni(L1)2 and Ni(L2)2 with IC50 value of <10 μgmL−1. Molecular docking studies were performed to assess the bonding mode of synthesized compounds. In case of antioxidant activity study, the compounds L1H, Ni(L1)2, Cu(L1)2, Cu(L2)2 and Ni(L2)2 exhibited significant scavenging activity with good percentage when compared with remaining tested compounds.
