RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: Social distancing mandates due to COVID-19 have necessitated adaptations to radiology trainee workflow and educational practices, including the radiology "readout." We describe how a large academic radiology department achieved socially distant "remote readouts," provide trainee and attending perspectives on this early experience, and propose ways by which "remote readouts" can be used effectively by training programs beyond COVID-19. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Beginning March 2020, radiologists were relocated to workspaces outside of conventional reading rooms. Information technologies were employed to allow for "remote readouts" between trainees and attendings. An optional anonymous open-ended survey regarding remote readouts was administered to radiology trainees and attendings as a quality improvement initiative. From the responses, response themes were abstracted using thematic analysis. Descriptive statistics of the qualitative data were calculated. RESULTS: Radiologist workstations from 14 traditional reading rooms were relocated to 36 workspaces across the hospital system. Two models of remote readouts, synchronous and asynchronous, were developed, facilitated by commercially available information technologies. Thirty-nine of 105 (37%) trainees and 42 of 90 (47%) attendings responded to the survey. Main response themes included: social distancing, technology, autonomy/competency, efficiency, education/feedback and atmosphere/professional relationship. One hundred and forty-eight positive versus 97 negative comments were reported. Social distancing, technology, and autonomy/competency were most positively rated. Trainees and attending perspectives differed regarding the efficiency of remote readouts. CONCLUSION: "Remote readouts," compliant with social distancing measures, are feasible in academic radiology practice settings. Perspectives from our initial experience provide insight into how this can be accomplished, opportunities for improvement and future application, beyond the COVID-19 pandemic.