BACKGROUND Endoscopic thyroidectomy (ET) or robotic thyroidectomy is yet to be applied to thyroid carcinoma invasive to the trachea and to wide lymph node node metastasis. On the other hand, small-incision thyroidectomy lacks sufficient working space and clear vision. The author has newly developed hybrid-type endoscopic thyroidectomy (HET) to overcome these problems. METHODS From March 2011 to February 2012, HET was performed for 85 patients. Clinicopathologic characteristics were analyzed. To evaluate the superiority of HET for malignancy representatively, conventional lobectomy with central compartment node dissection (CCND) performed 1 year previously was compared with HET. In lobectomy and node dissection, a single skin incision (1.5 cm) is made above the clavicle, with a port incision (5 mm) made 3 cm below the clavicle. Then CCND is performed directly through the incision by lifting up the isthmus. To obtain sufficient working space for the lobectomy, the strap muscles are taped and pulled toward the head, then hung by the cradle. The thyroid lobe is retracted to the midline with a retractor, followed by isolation of the inferior laryngeal nerve and transection of the inferior thyroid vessels with the monitor of the scope. Lateral lymph nodes dissection can be performed at the same time, if necessary. In total thyroidectomy, the same procedure is performed at the opposite side. The scalpel can be used to shave through each incision in case of tracheal invasion. RESULTS Of the 85 cases, 62 were malignant, involving papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), and 23 were benign. Total thyroidectomy was performed for 22 of the PTC cases and CCND for 49 of the cases. Shaving for tracheal invasion was performed for eight patients. No mortality, complications, recurrence, or metastasis was found 1-2 years after the operation. Compared with conventional thyroidectomy, HET was superior in blood loss, visual analog scale, and postoperative hospital stay. CONCLUSION The author's method (Tori's method) might be less invasive, cosmetically excellent, and moreover, safe and feasible for differentiated thyroid carcinoma including invasion to the trachea.