Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is an enveloped RNA virus which is responsible for approximately 80% of lower respiratory tract infections in children. Current lines of evidence have supported the functional involvement of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) in many viral infectious diseases. However, the overall biological effect and clinical role of lncRNAs in RSV infection remain unclear. In this study, lncRNAs related to respiratory virus infection were obtained from the lncRNA database, and we collected 144 clinical sputum specimens to identify lncRNAs related to RSV infection. Quantitative PCR (qPCR) detection indicated that the expression of lncRNA negative regulator of antiviral response (NRAV) in RSV-positive patients was significantly lower than that in uninfected patients, but lncRNA psoriasis-associated non-protein coding RNA induced by stress (PRINS), nuclear paraspeckle assembly transcript 1 (NEAT1), and Nettoie Salmonella pas Theiler’s (NeST) showed no difference in vivo and in vitro. Meanwhile, overexpression of NRAV promoted RSV proliferation in A549 and BEAS-2B cells, and vice versa, indicating that the downregulation of NRAV was part of the host antiviral defense. RNA fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) confirmed that NRAV was mainly located in the cytoplasm. Through RNA sequencing, we found that Rab5c, which is a vesicle transporting protein, showed the same change trend as NRAV. Subsequent investigation revealed that NRAV was able to favor RSV production indirectly by sponging microRNA miR-509-3p so as to release Rab5c and facilitate vesicle transportation. The study provides a new insight into virus-host interaction through noncoding RNA, which may contribute to exploring potential antivirus targets for respiratory virus. IMPORTANCE The mechanism of interaction between RSV and host noncoding RNAs is not fully understood. In this study, we found that the expression of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) negative regulator of antiviral response (NRAV) was reduced in RSV-infected patients, and overexpression of NRAV facilitated RSV production in vitro, suggesting that the reduction of NRAV in RSV infection was part of the host antiviral response. We also found that NRAV competed with vesicle protein Rab5c for microRNA miR509-3p in cytoplasm to promote RSV vesicle transport and accelerate RSV proliferation, thereby improving our understanding of the pathogenic mechanism of RSV infection.