BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Impaired bone formation of the buccal alveolar plate after tooth extraction during adolescence increases the difficulty of future implant restoration. This study was undertaken to assess the feasibility and efficacy of transplanting autogenous scaffold-free culture-expanded mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) sheets to the buccal alveolar bone surface to stimulate local bone growth. MATERIAL AND METHODS Mandibular bone marrow was aspirated from 3-month-old pigs (n = 5), from which MSCs were isolated and culture expanded. Triple-layer MSC sheets were then fabricated using temperature-responsive tissue culture plates. One month after bone marrow aspirations, the same pigs underwent bilateral extraction of mandibular primary molars, immediately followed by transplantation of 3 autogenous triple-layer MSC sheets on to the subperiosteal buccal alveolar surface of 1 randomly chosen side. The contralateral side (control) underwent the same periosteal reflection surgery without receiving MSC sheet transplantation. Six weeks later, the animals were killed and specimens from both sides were immediately harvested for radiographic and histological analysis. Buccal alveolar bone thickness, tissue mineral density (TMD), mineral apposition and bone volume fraction (BV/TV) were quantified and compared between the MSC sheet and control sides using paired t-tests. RESULTS Triple-layer MSC sheets were reliably fabricated and the majority of cells remained vital before transplantation. The thickness of buccal bone tended to increase with MSC sheet transplantation (P = .18), with 4 of 5 animals showing an average of 1.82 ± 0.73 mm thicker bone on the MSC sheet side than the control side. After being normalized by the TMD of intracortical bone, the TMD of surface cortical bone was 0.5-fold higher on the MSC sheet side than the control side (P < .05). Likewise, the BV/TV measurements of the buccal surface region were also 0.4-fold higher on the MSC sheet side than the control side (P < .05) after being normalized by measurements from the intracortical region. Mineral apposition measurements were not different between the 2 sides. CONCLUSION Mandibular marrow-derived MSCs can be fabricated into cell sheets and autogenous transplantation of MSC sheets onto the subperiosteal buccal alveolar bone surface at the tooth-extraction site may increase local bone density.