INTRODUCTION New transumbilical laparoendoscopic procedures are an emerging field in urologic surgery. We introduced the concept of single-incision triangulated umbilical surgery (SITUS) in 2009. SITUS technique uses straight optics and instruments in a triangulated fashion via three trocars placed through an umbilical incision resulting in a familiar laparoscopic environment. Aim of the study was to demonstrate the feasibility of SITUS in simple and radical nephrectomy in daily routine. MATERIALS AND METHODS From October 2009 to July 2010, in 3 patients with cirrhotic kidneys a simple and in 12 patients a radical nephrectomy was performed in SITUS technique. The umbilical fold was incised at three-fourth of its circumference; in the patient with radical nephrectomy, additionally small "c"-shaped skin flaps were removed. After achieving a pneumoperitoneum by Verres technique, a 5-mm camera port and then a cranial 5 mm and a caudal 11 mm working trocar were placed with at a distance of 5-10 cm with the aid of two Langenbeck hooks, thus allowing triangulation except in the radical nephrectomy patients, where an 11-mm caudal trocar (Endopath, Ethicon, Hamburg, GER) was used. Using long conventional laparoscopic instruments, En-Seal pressure coagulator and dissector (Erbe, Tuebingen, Germany), Hem-O-Lock clips (Weck, Teleflex, USA), and a 30° 5-mm optic (Karl Storz, Tuttlingen, GER), the interventions were executed like conventional laparoscopic transperitoneal procedures. RESULTS OR time was mean 127 min [120, 153] for cirrhotic kidney nephrectomy group and mean 137 min [91, 185] in the radical nephrectomy group. Mean hemoglobin drop was 1.5 g/dl [1.2, 1.7] in benign cases and 2.4 [1.1, 4.9] in radial nephrectomies. All except one diabetic patient with wound infection had an uneventful follow-up without postoperative complications. The patients were discharged at postoperative day 5 [3, 29]. CONCLUSION SITUS technique for simple and radical nephrectomy is an attractive alternative to conventional laparoscopy and single-port surgery. It combines the common principles of traditional laparoscopy (straight instruments and triangulation) with single-port surgery (cosmesis and minimally invasiveness) resulting in adequate or time and short learning curve.