Objective: to examine whether spousal bereavement increases the risk of death and negative health outcomes and among older people. Design: cohort study and self-controlled cohort crossover study Setting: routinely collected administrative and healthcare data with individual-level linkage between several national registries in Sweden. Participants: older persons (>65 years) living in the community whose spouse died in 2013-2014, individually matched with controls. Main outcome measures: death from any cause (primary outcome), acute cardiovascular events, pneumonia, hip fracture, and intentional self-harm (secondary outcomes). In the cohort study, incidence rate ratios were estimated with conditional fixed-effect Poisson regression models adjusted for potential confounders. In the self-controlled cohort crossover study, relative incidence ratios were estimated over the 12 months before and after spousal loss with unadjusted conditional fixed-effect Poisson regression including a bereavement-by-time interaction. Results: 42 918 bereaved older spouses were included and matched to an equal number of married controls (mean age 78.9 [SD 7.2] years, 68% women). During the first year of follow-up, the risk of death from any cause was 1.66 (95% confidence interval 1.53 to 1.80) times higher for bereaved cases than for married controls, and bereaved cases survived on average 4.2 days shorter than married controls. Bereaved cases also experienced an increased risk of acute cardiovascular events (incidence rate ratio 1.34, 1.24 to 1.44), hip fracture (1.48, 1.30 to 1.68), pneumonia (1.14, 1.04 to 1.25), and self-harm (3.49, 2.11 to 5.76). These associations were strongly time-dependent, increasing sharply immediately after spousal loss and weakening as time elapsed. In the self-controlled cohort crossover study, the relative incidence ratios increased for all four secondary outcomes, starting already during the 6-month period preceding spousal loss. Conclusion: Among older persons, the association between spousal bereavement and the risk of negative health outcomes and mortality is most likely causal. Our finding that the risk of adverse health consequences increases already during the 6 months prior to spousal loss indicates that palliative care services have an important role to play in providing timely bereavement care to spouses and other family caregivers.