BACKGROUND The transanal endoscopic operation (TEO) has proved to be an effective alternative to conventional surgery for the treatment of rectal lesions. The TEO procedure offers reduced morbidity, faster recovery and equivalent oncologic outcome. Currently, two instrument sets are available: one with three-dimensional (Wolf) and one with two-dimensional (Storz) optic capacities. The three-dimensional (3D) instrument set is considered the golden standard. Although the advantages of TEO are imposing, the procedure with the 3D armamentarium has certain technical and financial drawbacks. This study therefore aimed to compare results for the TEO 2D alternative with recently published results for 3D TEO. METHODS All consecutive patients with benign or malignant pT1 or pT2 rectal lesions undergoing TEO were prospectively followed. All procedures were performed with the 2D armamentarium using standard endoscopic instruments, a rectoscope (diameter, 4 cm; working length, 7.5-15 cm), and 5-mm Ligasure and Ultracision. Operating times, complications, hospital stay, and oncologic outcome were gathered and compared with published data. RESULTS Between 2004 and 2006, 31 patients with a median age of 75 years (range, 33-87 years) underwent 31 TEOs for a total of 36 rectal lesions (29 tubulovillous adenomas and 7 adenocarcinomas). The median distance of the lesion from the anal verge was 7.5 cm (range, 5-15 cm). The median lesion diameter was 2.3 cm (range, 0.5-5.0 cm). The locations of the lesions were as follows: 18 on the dorsal, 5 on the ventral, and 5 on the lateral rectal wall. The median operating time was 55 min (range, 25-165 min), compared with 105 min reported in the literature. All the lesions except one could be radically excised. No intraoperative complications occurred. Postoperative complications occurred for three patients, all due to hemorrhage. The median hospital stay was 3 days (range, 1-21 days). During a median follow-up period of 15 months (range, 1-35 months), two recurrences took place. CONCLUSION The study findings showed that for rectal tumors located up to 15 cm from the anal verge with a maximal diameter of 5 cm, TEO using standard laparoscopic instruments with a 2D view is feasible and provides results comparable with those associated with a 3D view and dedicated instruments. Furthermore, the 2D procedure can be performed with improved ergonomics due to movable monitors and is considerably less expensive.