BACKGROUND: Early bisphenol exposure may have consequences for executive function development, but less is known about potential sex effects. We hypothesized that early bisphenol A (BPA) and bisphenol S (BPS) exposures would be associated with sex-dependent changes in preschool executive function. METHODS: A subsample of the Alberta Pregnancy Outcomes and Nutrition (APrON) cohort (n = 312) provided maternal second trimester (prenatal) and 3-month postpartum (postnatal) urine samples, from which BPA and BPS concentrations were quantified. When children were age 2 and 4, mothers completed the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function-Preschool Version (BRIEF-P). Changes in standardized T scores on the BRIEF-P indexes of inhibitory self-control, flexibility, and emergent metacognition were investigated. RESULTS: Adjusted multivariate regression analyses showed that child sex modified the associations between maternal postnatal BPA and changes in executive function. Higher maternal postnatal BPA concentrations predicted increasing difficulties from age 2 to 4 in the domains of inhibitory self-control and emergent metacognition in female, but not male children. The other bisphenol concentrations were not associated with changes in executive function. CONCLUSION: Due to the ubiquity of BPA exposure among breastfeeding women, these findings justify further investigation on the effects of postnatal bisphenol exposure on child cognitive development. IMPACT: Higher concentrations of maternal BPA at 3-month postpartum were associated with increasing difficulties in inhibitory self-control and emergent metacognition from age 2 to 4 in girls, but not boys.Prenatal BPA and prenatal/postnatal BPS were not significant predictors of change in executive function in boys and girls.The current study extends previous research to show that maternal postnatal BPA could also impact child executive function.Due to the ubiquity of BPA exposure among breastfeeding women, the current findings suggest that additional precautions may be needed to protect infants' neurodevelopment from indirect exposure to BPA.