INTRODUCTION: In response to the Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, vascular surgeons in the Veteran Affairs Health Care System have been undertaking only essential cases, such as advanced critical limb ischemia. Surgical risk assessment in these patients is often complex, considers all factors known to impact short- and long-term outcomes, and the additional risk that COVID-19 infection could convey in this patient population is unknown. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) published risk factors (ECDC-RF) implicated in increased COVID-19 hospitalization and case-fatality which have been further evidenced by initial reports from the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC reports additionally indicate that African American (AA) patients have incurred disparate infection outcomes in the United States. We set forth to survey the Veterans Affairs Surgical Quality Improvement Program (VASQIP) database over a nearly 20 year span to inform ongoing risk assessment with an estimation of the prevalence of ECDC-RF in our veteran critical limb ischemia population and investigate whether an increased COVID-19 comorbidity burden exists for AA veterans presenting for major non-traumatic amputation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The VASQIP database was queried for all above knee amputation (AKA) and below knee amputation (BKA) completed 1999–2018 after IRB approval (MIRB:#02507). Patient race and ECDC-RF including male gender, age > 60 years, smoking status, hypertension, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer, and cardiovascular disease were recorded from preoperative patient history. AKA and BKA cohorts were compared via χ(2)-test with Yates correction or unpaired t-test and a subgroup analysis was conducted between AA and all other race patients for COVID-19 comorbidities in each cohort. RESULTS: VASQIP query returned 50,083 total entries. Average age was 65.1 ± 10.4 years and 68.2 ± 10.5 years for BKA and AKA cohorts, respectively, (P < .0001) and nearly all patients were male (99%). At least one ECDC-RF comorbidity was present in 25,526 (88.7%) of BKA and 17,558 (82.4%) of AKA patients (P < .0001). AA BKA patients were significantly more likely than non-AA BKA patients to present with at least one ECDC-RF comorbidity (P = .01). CONCLUSIONS: According to a large national Veterans Affairs database, there are high rates of ECDC-RF in veteran amputees. During the present crisis, management of these patients should incorporate telehealth, expedient discharge, and ongoing COVID-19 transmission precautions.