BACKGROUND This study aimed to assess the surgical difficulty of minimally invasive esophagectomy in the left lateral decubitus position for patients with esophageal cancer from the perspective of short-term outcomes, including operation time, blood loss, and morbidity. MATERIALS AND METHODS The initial 44 consecutive patients with esophageal cancer who underwent minimally invasive esophagectomy were statistically analyzed retrospectively. Thoracic cage area was measured from preoperative computed tomography as a factor affecting the surgical difficulty of minimally invasive esophagectomy, as well as other patient characteristics. Correlations with short-term outcomes including chest operation time, blood loss, and morbidity rate were then examined. RESULTS In univariate analyses, smaller area of the upper thoracic cage width correlated with prolonged thoracic procedure time (p = 0.0119) and greater blood loss during thoracic procedures (p = 0.0283), but area of the lower thoracic cage showed no correlations. History of respiratory disease was associated with thoracic procedure time (p < 0.0001), but not blood loss. In multivariate analysis, small area of the upper thoracic cage was independently associated with prolonged thoracic procedure time (p = 0.0253). Small upper thoracic cage area was not directly correlated with morbidity rate, but prolonged thoracic procedure time was associated with increased blood loss (p < 0.0001) and morbidity rate (p = 0.0204). Empirical time reduction (p = 0.0065), but not blood loss, was associated with thoracic procedure time. However, area of the upper thoracic cage did not correlate with empirical case number. In multivariate analysis, area of the upper thoracic cage (p = 0.0317) and empirical case number (p = 0.0193) correlated independently with thoracic procedure time. CONCLUSION A small area of the upper thoracic cage correlated significantly with prolonged thoracic procedure time and increased thoracic blood loss for minimally invasive esophagectomy in the left lateral decubitus position, suggesting the surgical difficulty of minimally invasive esophagectomy in the left lateral decubitus position.