BACKGROUND The goal of this study was to investigate the association of tracheostomy timing with outcomes after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in a national population. METHODS Poor-grade aneurysmal SAH patients were extracted from the Nationwide Inpatient Sample (2002-2011). Multivariable linear regression was used to analyze predictors of tracheostomy timing and multivariable logistic regression was used to evaluate the association of timing of intervention with mortality, complications, and discharge to institutional care. Covariates included patient demographics, comorbidities, severity of subarachnoid hemorrhage (measured using the NIS-SAH severity scale), hospital characteristics, and other complications and length of stay. RESULTS The median time to tracheostomy among 1380 poor-grade SAH admissions was 11 (interquartile range: 7-15) days after intubation. The mean number of days from intubation to tracheostomy in SAH patients at the hospital (p < 0.001) was the strongest predictor of tracheostomy timing for a patient, while comorbidities and SAH severity were not significant predictors. Mortality, neurologic complications, and discharge disposition did not differ significantly by tracheostomy time. However, later tracheostomy (when evaluated continuously) was associated with greater odds of pulmonary complications (p = 0.004), venous thromboembolism (p = 0.04), and pneumonia (p = 0.02), as well as a longer hospitalization (p < 0.001). Subgroup analysis only found these associations between tracheostomy timing and medical complications in patients with moderately poor grade (NIS-SAH severity scale 7-9), while there were no significant differences by timing of intervention in very poor-grade patients (NIS-SAH severity scale > 9). CONCLUSIONS In this analysis of a large, national data set, variation in hospital practices was the strongest predictor of tracheostomy timing for an individual. In patients with moderately poor grade, later tracheostomy was independently associated with pulmonary complications, venous thromboembolism, pneumonia, and a longer hospitalization, but not with mortality, neurological complications, or discharge disposition. However, tracheostomy timing was not significantly associated with outcomes in very poor-grade patients.