UNLABELLED A common effect of autologous blood withdrawal before cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is a decrease in haematocrit (Hct) and haemoglobin (Hb) content. A refinement of this technique is autologous blood withdrawal with the sequestration of platelet rich plasma (PRP) and red blood cells (RBCs). METHODS One hundred and four patients were included in a randomized study stratified into three groups: the autologous blood withdrawal group (Group 1), the autologous blood withdrawal group with blood loss sequestration (Group 2) and the control group (Control group). In Group 1, the amount of withdrawn blood was transfused after CPB. In Group 2, the RBCs were transfused immediately after sequestration and the PRP was transfused after the termination of CPB. In the Control group, no autologous blood withdrawal was employed. The following variables were analysed: blood loss, blood products transfusion, fluid transfusion, diuresis, haematological and coagulation data and the duration of the operation and intensive care unit stay. RESULTS We found no significant differences in peri-operative blood loss and transfused blood products among the three groups. There was a trend towards a lower amount of transfused fresh frozen plasma (FFP) for Group 1 (p =0.057) in the operation room (OR). The use of plasma expanders post-CPB was significantly higher in the Control group (p=0.024). RBCs coming from the auto-transfusion device were, for Group 1, significantly lower (p=0.007). The Hb and Hct values in Group 1, at start and end of CPB, were significantly lower (p=0.023-0.003 / 0.001-0.001, respectively). All other parameters were not significantly different. CONCLUSION there were no significant differences between the study groups. This randomized trial shows that, although sequestration immediately after autologous blood withdrawal has no added value, autologous blood withdrawal in patients with a normal pre-operative Hb and Hct is simple, inexpensive and allows for autologous blood transfusion.