Objective: To characterize patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in a large New York City (NYC) medical center and describe their clinical course across the emergency department (ED), inpatient floors, and intensive care units (ICUs). Design: Retrospective manual medical record review. Setting: NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center (NYP/CUIMC), a quaternary care academic medical center in NYC. Participants: The first 1000 consecutive patients with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19. Methods: We identified patients with a positive RT-SARS-CoV-2 PCR receiving care at NYP/CUIMC from March 1 through April 15. Patient data was manually abstracted from the electronic medical record. Main outcome measures: We describe patient characteristics including demographics, presenting symptoms, comorbidities on presentation, hospital course, time to intubation, complications, outcomes, and disposition. Results: Among the first 1000 patients with confirmed COVID-19, 151 patients were discharged from or died in the ED, 618 were admitted to the floor, and 231 were admitted or transferred to the ICU; 195 remained hospitalized and 172 had died in the hospital. The most common presenting symptoms were cough (73.2%), fever (72.8%), and dyspnea (62.9%). Compared to Chinese and Italian cohorts, hospitalized patients and ICU patients in particular had more baseline comorbidities including hypertension, diabetes, and obesity and higher rates of acute kidney injury (AKI) and dialysis. ICU patients were older and predominantly male (67.5%); 75.3% developed AKI and 31.2% required dialysis. Notably, of patients who required mechanical ventilation, only 5.9% were first intubated more than 14 days after symptom onset. Time to intubation from symptom onset had a bimodal distribution, with modes at 3-4 and 9 days. Conclusions: Hospitalized patients with COVID-19 illness at this medical center faced significant morbidity and mortality, with high rates of AKI, dialysis, and a bimodal distribution in time to intubation from symptom onset. Patients in this large sample have more baseline comorbidities and more complications than previous Italian and Chinese cohorts.