While feline leukemia virus (FeLV) has been shown to infect felid species other than the endemic domestic cat host, differences in FeLV susceptibility among species has not been evaluated. Previous reports have noted a negative correlation between enFeLV copy number and exogenous FeLV infection outcomes in domestic cats. Since felids outside the genus Felis do not harbor enFeLV genomes, we hypothesized absence of enFeLV results in more severe disease consequences in felid species lacking these genomic elements. We infected primary fibroblasts isolated from domestic cats (Felis catus) and pumas (Puma concolor) with FeLV and quantitated proviral and viral antigen loads. Domestic cat enFeLV env and LTR copy numbers were determined for each individual and compared to FeLV viral outcomes. FeLV proviral and antigen levels were also measured in 6 naturally infected domestic cats and 11 naturally infected Florida panthers (P. concolor coryi). We demonstrated that puma fibroblasts are more permissive to FeLV than domestic cat cells, and domestic cat FeLV restriction was highly related to enFeLV LTR copy number. Terminal tissues from FeLV-infected Florida panthers and domestic cats had similar exFeLV proviral copy numbers, but Florida panther tissues have higher FeLV antigen loads. Our work indicates enFeLV LTR elements negatively regulate exogenous FeLV replication. Further, Puma concolor lacking enFeLV are more permissive to FeLV infection than domestic cats, suggesting endogenization can play a beneficial role in mitigating exogenous retroviral infections. Conversely, presence of endogenous retroelements may relate to new host susceptibility during viral spillover events. Importance Feline leukemia virus (FeLV) can infect a variety of felid species. Only the primary domestic cat host and related small cat species harbor a related endogenous virus in their genomes. Previous studies noted a negative association between the endogenous virus copy number and exogenous virus infection in domestic cats. This report shows that puma cells, which lack endogenous FeLV, produce more virus more rapidly than domestic cat fibroblasts following cell culture challenge. We document a strong association between domestic cat cell susceptibility and FeLV long terminal repeat (LTR) copy number, similar to observations in natural FeLV infections. Viral replication does not, however, correlate with FeLV env copy number, suggesting this effect is specific to FeLV LTR elements. This discovery indicates a protective capacity of the endogenous virus against the exogenous form, either via direct interference or indirectly via gene regulation, and may suggest evolutionary outcomes of retroviral endogenization.