BACKGROUND As the life expectancy in the United States continues to increase, more elderly, sometimes frail patients present with sub-acute surgical conditions such as a symptomatic paraesophageal hernia (PEH). While the outcomes of PEH repair have improved largely due to the proliferation of laparoscopic surgery, there is still a defined rate of morbidity and mortality. We sought to characterize the outcomes of both elective and emergent PEH repair using a large population-based data set. METHODS The Nationwide Inpatient Sample was queried for primary ICD-9 codes associated with PEH repair (years 2006-2008). Outcomes were in-hospital mortality and the occurrence of a pre-identified complication. Multivariate analysis was performed to determine the risk factors for complications and mortality following both elective and emergent PEH repair. RESULTS A total of 8,462 records in the data, representing 41,723 patients in the US undergoing PEH repair in the study interval, were identified. Of these procedures, 74.2% was elective and 42.4% was laparoscopic. The overall complication and mortality rates were 20.8 and 1.1%, respectively. Emergent repair was associated with a higher rate of morbidity (33.4 vs. 16.5%, p < 0.001) and mortality (3.2 vs. 0.37%, p < 0.001) than elective repair. Emergent repair patients were more likely to be male, were older, and more likely to be minority. Logistic modeling revealed that younger age, elective case status, and a laparoscopic approach were independently associated with a lower probability of complications and mortality. CONCLUSIONS Patients undergoing emergent PEH repair in the United States tend to be older, more likely a racial minority, and less likely to undergo laparoscopic repair. Elective repair, younger age, and a laparoscopic approach are associated with improved outcomes. Considering all of the above, we recommend that patients consider elective repair with a surgeon experienced in the laparoscopic approach, especially when symptoms related to the hernia are present.