INTRODUCTION Minimally invasive laparoscopic surgical procedures are increasingly being used for the management of vesicoureteral reflux. OBJECTIVE We present our experience of the laparoscopic Politano-Leadbetter technique performed under pneumovesicum conditions, which allows an orthotopic ureteral location after vesicoureteral reflux correction. Our procedure recreates the new ureteric orifice in a normal anatomical position with potential less morbidity and better cosmesis. STUDY DESIGN Our series comprises ten cases. The three 5 mm ports were introduced through bladder wall under cystoscopic vision. A 5-0 monofilament traction suture was used and dissection was carried out. After the ureteral mobilization, the location of the new hiatus was selected in a straight line superior to the original orifice. Dissection of the submucosal tunnel was started from the new hiatus and advanced to the original hiatus and the ureter was gently drawn passed through the tunnel. The ureter was rolled up and muscle fibers were incised until ureter could freely move from the base of the new hiatus. Finally, after spatulation of the terminal part of the ureter, ureterovesical anastomosis was performed with intracorporeal suturing using 5-0 monofilament sutures. RESULTS The average operative time was 125 min, with an average of 93 min for unilateral and 133 min for bilateral reimplantation. Blood loss was minimal and drains were used selectively. Removal of urethral catheter was decided empirically after hematuria stopped. Mean catheterization time was 5.1 days. The mean postoperative hospital stay was 6.2 days. DISCUSSION This study had limitations: the small number of cases, follow-up period is relatively short and data on the pre-operative bladder capacity, catheter-related morbidity, pain control and cosmesis are lacking. But most cases showed positive clinical results including acceptable operating time and good resolution rate with minimal complication. Our Politano-Leadbetter transvesicoscopic ureteric reimplantation is safe and useful in the resolution of VUR, even though the laparoscopic ureteric reimplantation is technically demanding even for experienced pediatric surgeons. Considering the main advantages of endoscopic surgery, our new vesicoscopic technique could be an optional treatment to the open reimplantation and has merits because whole the procedure are performed within the bladder, so there is no risk of intraperitoneal organ injury. CONCLUSION Though the role of this new technique in the treatment of VUR remains to be determined, the technique could be an optional treatment to replace other surgical methods as a less invasive and effective therapeutic method.