BACKGROUND The restoration of intestinal continuity after open abdominal surgery can be technically challenging. The authors describe their experience with the laparoscopic approach to attempted reversal for patients with an exteriorized intestine. METHODS A consecutive series of patients under the care of a single surgeon (D.B.) underwent laparoscopic restoration of intestinal continuity (LapRICon). All the patients first underwent exclusion of intraabdominal sepsis with computed tomography (CT) scanning and then preoperative localization of proximal and distal bowel ends via water-soluble contrast studies. Stomal sites were used for initial access, establishment of capnoperitoneum, and formation of anastomoses extracorporeally. All adhesiolysis and mobilization of bowel ends were performed intracorporeally. Pre-, intra-, and postoperative data were collected for all the patients. Return of intestinal function, overall hospital length of stay, and postoperative complications were collected. Nonparametric statistics were used to analyze the data. RESULTS A total of 13 patients (6 women) were followed up for 9 months (interquartile range [IQR], 5-16 months). The median age of the patients was 39 years (IQR, 28-64 years). Nine patients were categorized as American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) class 1. One patient was ASA 2, and the remaining patients were ASA 3. The median colorectal physiologic and operative severity scores for the enumeration of mortality and morbidity (CR-POSSUM) were 0.68 (IQR, 0.68-1.72). The intraoperative blood loss was minimal (median 30 ml; IQR, 20-125 ml). The median operative duration was 240 min (IQR, 180-240 min), and a median of 4 ports (IQR, 3-5 ports) were used. Enterocolonic anastomoses were fashioned in six patients, enterorectal anastomoses in two patients, and enteroentero anastomoses in three patients. A single patient had multiple anastomoses. The median time to return of intestinal function was 5 days (IQR, 3-13 days), and the overall hospital stay was 8 days (IQR, 5-24 days). Four complications (25%) (2 recurrent fistulas, 1 anastomotic leak, and 1 open conversion) occurred in this series of patients. CONCLUSIONS The LapRICon procedure is a feasible technique with acceptable morbidity. Several principles and techniques are described to aid the surgeon who wishes to embark on use of such a technique.