Marissa Renardy and Denise Kirschner University of Michigan Medical School The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the patchwork nature of disease epidemics, with infection spread dynamics varying wildly across countries and across states within the US. These heteroge- neous patterns are also observed within individual states, with patches of concentrated outbreaks. Data is being generated daily at all of these spatial scales, and answers to questions regarded re- opening strategies are desperately needed. Mathematical modeling is useful in exactly these cases, and using modeling at a county scale may be valuable to further predict disease dynamics for the purposes of public health interventions. To explore this issue, we study and predict the spread of COVID-19 in Washtenaw County, MI, the home to University of Michigan, Eastern Michigan University, and Google, as well as serving as a sister city to Detroit, MI where there has been a serious outbreak. Here, we apply a discrete and stochastic network-based modeling framework allowing us to track every individual in the county. In this framework, we construct contact net- works based on synthetic population datasets specific for Washtenaw County that are derived from US Census datasets. We assign individuals to households, workplaces, schools, and group quarters (such as prisons). In addition, we assign casual contacts to each individual at random. Using this framework, we explicitly simulate Michigan-specific government-mandated workplace and school closures as well as social distancing measures. We also perform sensitivity analyses to identify key model parameters and mechanisms contributing to the observed disease burden in the three months following the first observed cases on COVID-19 in Michigan. We then consider several scenarios for relaxing restrictions and reopening workplaces to predict what actions would be most prudent. In particular, we consider the effects of 1) different timings for reopening, and 2) different levels of workplace vs. casual contact re-engagement. Through simulations and sensitivity analyses, we explore mechanisms driving magnitude and timing of a second wave of infections upon re-opening. This model can be adapted to other US counties using synthetic population databases and data specific to those regions.