Murine coronavirus MHV-A59 normally infects only murine cells in vitro and causes transmissible infection only in mice. In the 17 C1 1 line of murine cells, the receptor for MHV-A59 is MHVR, a biliary glycoprotein in the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) family of glycoproteins. We found that virus released from the 600th passage of 17 C1 1 cells persistently infected with MHV-A59 (MHV/pi600) replicated in hamster (BHK-21) cells. The virus was passaged and plaque-purified in BHK-21 cells, yielding the MHV/BHK strain. Because murine cells persistently infected with MHV-A59 express a markedly reduced level of MHVR (Sawicki, et al., 1995), we tested whether virus with altered receptor interactions was selected in the persistently infected culture. Infection of 17 C1 1 cells by MHV-A59 can be blocked by treating the cells with anti-MHVR MAb-CC1, while infection by MHV/BHK was only partially blocked by MAb-CC1. MHV/BHK virus was also more resistant than wild-type MHV-A59 to neutralization by purified, recombinant, soluble MHVR glycoprotein (sMHVR). Cells in the persistently infected culture may also express reduced levels of and have altered interactions with some of the Bgp-related glycoproteins that can serve as alternative receptors for MHV-A59. Unlike the parental MHV-A59 which only infects murine cells, MHV/BHK virus was able to infect cell lines derived from mice, hamsters, rats, cats, cows, monkeys and humans. However, MHV/BHK was not able to infect all mammalian species, because a pig (ST) cell line and a dog cell line (MDCK I) were not susceptible to infection. MHV/pi600 and MHV/BHK replicated in murine cells more slowly than MHV-A59 and formed smaller plaques. Thus, in the persistently infected murine cells which expressed a markedly reduced level of MHVR, virus variants were selected that have altered interactions with MHVR and an extended host range. In vivo, in mice infected with coronavirus, virus variants with altered receptor recognition and extended host range might be selected in tissues that have low levels of receptors. Depending upon the tissue in which such a virus variant was selected, it might be shed from the infected animal or eaten by a predator, thus presenting a possible means for initiating the transition of a variant virus into a new host as a model for an emerging virus disease.