The discovery of asunaprevir (1) began with the concept of engaging the small and well-defined S(1)’ pocket of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3/4A protease that was explored in the context of tripeptide carboxylic acid-based inhibitors. A cyclopropyl-acyl sulfonamide moiety was found to be the optimal element at the P(1)-P(1)’ interface enhancing the potency of carboxylic acid-based prototypes by 10- to >100-fold, dependent upon the specific background. Optimization for oral bioavailability identified a 1-substituted isoquinoline-based P(2)* element that conferred a significant exposure advantage in rats compared to the matched 4-substituted quinoline isomer. BMS-605339 (30) was the first cyclopropyl-acyl sulfonamide derivative advanced into clinical trials that demonstrated dose-related reductions in plasma viral RNA in HCV-infected patients. However, 30 was associated with cardiac events observed in a normal healthy volunteer (NHV) and an HCV-infected patient that led to the suspension of the development program. Using a Langendorff rabbit heart model, a limited structure-cardiac liability relationship was quickly established that led to the discovery of 1. This compound, which differs from 30 only by changes in the substitution pattern of the P(2)* isoquinoline heterocycle and the addition of a single chlorine atom to the molecular formula, gave a dose-dependent reduction in plasma viral RNA following oral administration to HCV-infected patients without the burden of the cardiac events that had been observed with 30. A small clinical trial of the combination of 1 with the HCV NS5A inhibitor daclatasvir (2) established for the first time that a chronic genotype 1 (GT-1) HCV infection could be cured by therapy with two direct-acting antiviral agents in the absence of exogenous immune-stimulating agents. Development of the combination of 1 and 2 was initially focused on Japan where the patient population is predominantly infected with GT-1b virus, culminating in marketing approval which was granted on July 4, 2014. In order to broaden therapy to include GT-1a infections, a fixed dose triple combination of 1, 2, and the allosteric NS5B inhibitor beclabuvir (3) was developed, approved by the Japanese health authorities for the treatment of HCV GT-1 infection on December 20, 2016 and marketed as Ximency(®).