PURPOSE: Malaria is a life-threatening infectious disease caused by the Plasmodium parasite. Increased global travel has resulted in an escalation in the number of imported cases seen in developed countries. Patients with malaria may present for surgery in both endemic and non-endemic countries. This article reviews the perioperative considerations when managing patients with malaria. SOURCE: A literature review of anesthesia, perioperative care, and malaria-related articles was performed using the MEDLINE(®), EMBASE™, and Web of Science databases to identify relevant articles published in English during 1945-2014. Of the 303 articles matching the search criteria, 265 were excluded based on title and abstract. Eleven of the remaining 38 articles were relevant to anesthesia/perioperative care, and 27 articles were identified as having direct relevance to critical care medicine. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The majority of imported malaria cases are caused by the falciparum species, which is associated with the greatest degree of morbidity and mortality. Various organ systems may be impacted as a consequence of changes in the structure and function of parasitized erythrocytes. Preoperative assessment should focus on establishing the species of malaria, the severity of disease, assessing the degree of end-organ impairment, and initiating treatment of malaria prior to surgery. Intravenous artesunate is the treatment of choice for severe falciparum malaria. Quinine is a second-line agent but has a narrow therapeutic index and particularly hazardous side effects. Intraoperatively, attention should focus on fluid management, dynamics of cerebral blood flow, and avoidance of hypoglycemia. Postoperative care of severe cases should ideally take place in a critical care unit as there may be ongoing requirements for multi-organ support, including renal replacement therapy, ventilation, and/or inotropic support. The safety of neuraxial anesthesia has not been well studied in the setting of malaria. CONCLUSIONS: Malaria remains one of the most devastating infectious diseases worldwide. Multiple organ systems can be impacted as a consequence of changes in structure and function of parasitized erythrocytes. Safe perioperative management requires a sound knowledge of all these potential system effects.