BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE Imaging findings can predict outcomes in patients with acute stroke. Relationships between imaging findings and clinical and imaging outcomes in patients randomized to intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator-alone versus tissue-type plasminogen activator plus endovascular therapy (Solitaire device) in the Solitaire With the Intention for Thrombectomy as Primary Endovascular Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke (SWIFT PRIME) study were assessed. METHODS We evaluated associations between imaging assessments (baseline mismatch profiles/ischemic core volumes and successful reperfusion) with imaging outcomes (27-hour infarct volume/growth) and clinical outcomes (modified Rankin Scale scores at 90 days). Imaging variables that predict favorable clinical outcomes were assessed in both univariate and multivariate models. RESULTS One hundred and ninety-five patients were included. Successful reperfusion and infarct volume (assessed at 27 hours) were powerful independent predictors of favorable clinical outcomes (modified Rankin Scale score of 0-2 at 90 days). Patients with the target mismatch profile at baseline had a higher rate of reperfusion, lesser infarct growth, smaller infarct volumes, and better clinical outcomes in the Solitaire plus tissue-type plasminogen activator (intervention) group than those in the tissue-type plasminogen activator-alone (control) group. Patients with larger mismatch volumes at baseline had a trend toward better treatment response in the intervention group than patients who had smaller (<50 mL) mismatch volumes. CONCLUSIONS Patients who achieved reperfusion had substantially more favorable clinical and imaging outcomes in both the intervention and the control groups. Infarct volume at 27 hours strongly correlated with clinical outcome at 90 days in both treatment groups. SWIFT PRIME patients with the target mismatch profile had a highly favorable response to endovascular therapy on both clinical and imaging outcomes. Both reperfusion and infarct volumes at 27 hours were powerful and independent predictors of 90-day clinical outcomes. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01657461.