STUDY OBJECTIVE To show a surgical video in which an incidentally found Meckel diverticulum was resected with a natural orifice-assisted laparoscopic approach during para-aortic resection of a retroperitoneal schwannoma. DESIGN Case report (Canadian Task Force classification III). SETTING Tertiary referral center in New Haven, Connecticut. INTERVENTIONS This is a step-by-step illustration for resection of a retroperitoneal para-aortic schwannoma and of an incidentally found Meckel diverticulum. The patient was a 39-year-old white woman diagnosed with stage IV choriocarcinoma with metastasis to the lungs and left para-aortic area. She received chemotherapy in the form of etoposide, methotrexate, actinomycin-D, cyclophosphamide, oncovine (EMA-CO) and had an excellent clinical response with resolution of all metastatic disease except for the para-aortic mass. Therefore, she was taken to the operating room for laparoscopic resection of the persistent left para-aortic mass. After placement of four 5-mm abdominal ports, the pelvis and abdomen were explored and revealed an incidental Meckel diverticulum as well as the 5 cm left para-aortic mass. The peritoneum overlying the para-aortic mass was incised and the retroperitoneum explored. Given the proximity to the mass, left ureterolysis was performed. The retroperitoneal attachments were resected, and the left para-aortic mass was removed without any complications. At this point attention was turned to the Meckel diverticulum. In order not to extend the abdominal incisions, a posterior colpotomy was performed in the cul-de-sac equidistant from the uterosacral ligaments. Endo-GIA (Covidien, New Haven CT) was introduced through the 10-mm port site at the posterior colpotomy. Meckel diverticulum was resected without narrowing the lumen of the distal ileum. The specimen was removed in a contained manner through posterior colpotomy. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS The procedure was performed without any complications. The patient had an uneventful postoperative course and was discharged home on postoperative day 0. Pathology revealed a retroperitoneal schwannoma with negative margins and benign Meckel diverticulum without ectopic gastric or pancreatic tissue. The patient has been disease-free since the completion of surgery. CONCLUSION Laparoscopic resection of the retroperitoneal schwannoma and Meckel diverticulum were successfully performed in this patient with history of stage IV choriocarcinoma. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing a natural orifice-assisted laparoscopic approach for resection of Meckel diverticulum. Natural orifice-assisted laparoscopy should be considered when the surgeon needs to remove a large specimen and/or to introduce >5-mm diameter instruments into the peritoneal cavity without having to extend the abdominal incisions.