BACKGROUND The primary aim of the present study was to evaluate whether usage of self-gripping mesh in open inguinal hernia repair, compared with standard Lichtenstein repair with sutured mesh, could result in a decreased rate of chronic pain at 6-mo follow-up. The secondary outcome was to evaluate foreign body feeling and the quality of life after inguinal hernia repair. METHODS The patients were randomized into two study groups as follows: the OLP group received Optilene LP mesh and the PPG group received self-gripping Parietex ProGrip mesh. Pain scores were measured on a visual analog scale. Foreign body feeling was registered as a yes or no question. Quality of life was evaluated using the Medical Outcome Study Short-Form 36 questionnaire. RESULTS A total of 75 patients in the OLP group and 70 patients in the PPG group were included in the analysis. According to the primary end point, 45.3% and 31.4% of the patients in the OLP group and PPG group experienced pain during different activities at 6-mo follow-up, respectively (P = 0.092). Per secondary end point, 22.7% in the OLP group and 40% in the PPG group reported foreign body feeling at the operation site at 6-mo follow-up (P = 0.031, risk ratio 0.57, 95% confidence interval 0.29-1.07). There were no significant differences in any domain of quality of life according to the Short-Form 36 questionnaire between the two study groups at 6-mo follow-up, except for the social functioning domain (P = 0.035). In the OLP group, the quality of life scores improved significantly after operation in all domains except for general health and mental health. In the PPG group, the quality of life scores improved significantly after operation in the domains of bodily pain, physical functioning, and physical role. CONCLUSIONS Self-gripping mesh compared with standard Lichtenstein operation has no advantages in reducing chronic pain 6-mo after surgery. The rate of foreign body feeling was higher in the self-gripping mesh group. Scores of bodily pain, physical functioning, and physical role improved significantly in both study groups after hernia surgery.