Only a few studies evaluate the presence of spermatozoa intraoperatively. The study aimed to assess whether the heterogenicity of testicular histopathology and seminiferous tubules can predict the outcome of microdissection testicular sperm extraction (micro-TESE) in men with nonobstructive azoospermia (NOA).The study comprised a retrospective analysis of 94 patients with azoospermia who were referred from 2016 to 2017. Under optical magnification, they were classified into 2 groups based on the diameter of tubules intraoperatively, namely homogeneous tubules and heterogeneous tubules. Postoperatively, patients were divided into 2 groups of heterogeneous histopathology and homogeneous histopathology according to the 8 histopathological classification subgroups. The sperm retrieval rate was the main outcome.Testicular spermatozoa were successfully retrieved in 27 men (28%). The sperm retrieval rate in those with heterogeneous histopathology was higher than men with homogeneous histopathology (47% vs 12%; P < .001). The sperm retrieval rate of each histopathological subgroup in men who had the heterogeneous histopathology was higher, compared with the homogeneous histopathology (Sertoli cell only [SCO]: 30% vs 6%; maturation arrest [MA]: 38% vs 0%; tubular hyalinization: 42% vs 20%, respectively). Under the optical magnification, the sperm retrieval rate was significantly higher in men with heterogeneous vs homogeneous tubules (65% vs 15%, P < .001). Moreover, the sperm retrieval rate of the contralateral testicular was higher in men who had heterogeneous tubules, compared with the homogeneous tubules (25% vs 3%; P = .036).Heterogenicity of histopathology is an effective predictor in men with histopathological information available from a previous diagnostic biopsy or conventional TESE attempt preoperatively for successful sperm retrieval. Homogeneous tubules seem beneficial for some patients to perform a limited (superficial) contralateral micro-TESE after no spermatozoa were identified initially.