BACKGROUND Preservation of esophageal and gastric function is a hallmark principle in ensuring optimal surgical outcomes after gastric fundoplication. In this study, we evaluated the impact of fundoplication on esophageal transit and gastric emptying using scintigraphy studies and related these functional findings to symptomatic outcomes. METHODS A total of 106 consecutive patients (37 women, 69 men) with both preoperative and 6-month postoperative nuclear scintigraphy studies undergoing partial (Toupet) fundoplication at a single institution were analyzed. Primary variables included alterations in esophageal transit and gastric emptying times after fundoplication (1 = rapid; 2 = normal; 3 = mild delay; 4 = severe delay). Symptomatic variables included heartburn, regurgitation, dysphagia, pulmonary symptoms, and bloating. RESULTS Mean age was 57.2 years. Symptomatic improvement was achieved in 91.5% of patients. Significant reduction of all symptoms (heartburn, regurgitation, pulmonary symptoms, and dysphagia) was noted after fundoplication, except gas bloating (4.7 vs. 20.8%). There were no significant differences in preoperative and postoperative esophageal transit (2.53 vs. 2.52) and gastric emptying (2.13 vs. 2.06) scores after fundoplication. Interestingly, 17% of esophageal transit times and 18% of gastric emptying times improved after fundoplication. However, worsening scores were seen in 16 and 12%, respectively. There was no significant postoperative dysphagia, even in patients with impaired transit times. CONCLUSIONS Nuclear scintigraphic assessment of esophageal transit and gastric emptying are valuable, user-friendly tools to identify and avoid functional motility problems in the setting of fundoplication. These studies seem to be a reasonable alternative to manometry in assessing esophageal function before surgery in this setting. Postoperative symptoms may be related to objective changes in esophageal transit or gastric emptying. The causes may be iatrogenic in nature or related to vagal denervation with associated changes in esophagogastric compliance. Awareness of these physiologic changes may prompt further technical precautions at the time of surgery to avoid vagal injury and also may facilitate postoperative medical management.