UNLABELLED Viruses commonly infect the respiratory tract. Analyses of host defense have focused on the lungs and the respiratory epithelium. Spontaneously inhaled murid herpesvirus 4 (MuHV-4) and herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) instead infect the olfactory epithelium, where neuronal cilia are exposed to environmental antigens and provide a route across the epithelial mucus. We used MuHV-4 to define how B cells respond to virus replication in this less well-characterized site. Olfactory infection elicited generally weaker acute responses than lung infection, particularly in the spleen, reflecting slower viral replication and spread. Few virus-specific antibody-forming cells (AFCs) were found in the nasal-associated lymphoid tissue (NALT), a prominent response site for respiratory epithelial infection. Instead, they appeared first in the superficial cervical lymph nodes. The focus of the AFC response then moved to the spleen, matching the geography of virus dissemination. Little virus-specific IgA response was detected until later in the bone marrow. Neuroepithelial HSV-1 infection also elicited no significant AFC response in the NALT and a weak IgA response. Thus, olfactory herpesvirus infection differed immunologically from an infection of the adjacent respiratory epithelium. Poor IgA induction may help herpesviruses to transmit via long-term mucosal shedding. IMPORTANCE Herpesviruses are widespread, persistent pathogens against which vaccines have had limited success. We need to understand better how they interact with host immunity. MuHV-4 and HSV-1 inhaled by alert mice infect the olfactory neuroepithelium, suggesting that this is a natural entry route. Its immunology is almost completely unknown. The antibody response to neuroepithelial herpesvirus infection started in the cervical lymph nodes, and unlike respiratory influenza virus infection, did not significantly involve the nasal-associated lymphoid tissue. MuHV-4 and HSV-1 infections also elicited little virus-specific IgA. Therefore, vaccine-induced IgA might provide a defense that herpesviruses are ill-equipped to meet.