A variant Mouse Hepatitis virus (MHV), designated MHV-H2, was isolated by serial passage in mixed cultures of permissive DBT cells and nonpermissive Syrian Hamster Kidney (BHK) cells. MHV-H2 replicated efficiently in hamster, mouse, primate kidney (Vero, Cos 1, Cos 7), and human adenocarcinoma (HRT) cell lines but failed to replicate in porcine testicular (ST), feline kidney (CRFK), and canine kidney (MDCK) cells. To understand the molecular basis for coronavirus cross-species transfer into human cell lines, the replication of MHV-H2 was studied in hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) cells which expressed high levels of the human homologue of the normal murine receptor, biliary glycoprotein (Bgp). MHV-H2 replicated efficiently in human HepG2 cells, at low levels in breast carcinoma (MCF7) cells, and poorly, if at all, in human colon adenocarcinoma (LS 174T) cell lines which expressed high levels of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). These data suggested that MHV-H2 may utilize the human Bgp homologue as a receptor for entry into HepG2 cells. To further study MHV-H2 receptor utilization in human cell lines, blockade experiments were performed with a panel of different monoclonal or polyclonal antiserum directed against the human CEA genes. Pretreatment of HepG2 cells with a polyclonal antiserum directed against all CEA family members, or with a monoclonal antibody, Kat4c (cd66abde), directed against Bgp1, CGM6, CGM1a, NCA and CEA, significantly reduced virus replication and the capacity of MHV-H2 to infect HepG2 cells. Using another panel of monoclonals with more restricted cross reactivities among the human CEA's, Col-4 and Col-14, but not B6.2 B1.13, Col-1, Col-6 and Col-12 blocked MHV-H2 infection in HepG2 cells. These antibodies did not block sindbis virus (SB) replication in HepG2 cells, or block SB, MHV-A59 or MHV-H2 replication in DBT cells. Monoclonal antibodies Col-4, Col-14, and Kat4c (cd66abde) all reacted strongly with human Bgp and CEA, but displayed variable binding patterns with other CEA genes. Following expression of human Bgp in normally nonpermissive porcine testicular (ST) and feline kidney (CRFK) cells, the cells became susceptible to MHV-H2 infection. These data suggested that phylogenetic homologues of virus receptors represent natural conduits for virus xenotropism and cross-species transfer.