BACKGROUND Although video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) for thymic disorders has been introduced, its oncological outcome and benefits over others open approaches remains unclear. Single-port VATS thymectomy using a flexible port and CO2 has been described. However, VATS thymectomy is possible by a single incision of 3 cm without CO2 insufflation or special port device avoiding objections related to CO2 insufflation and allowing instruments to move more freely making procedure easier and cheaper. Our institutional experience in open and CO2-less VATS single-port thymectomy was retrospectively reviewed to evaluate compared to sternotomy, the clinical and oncological outcomes with this novel approach. METHODS A retrospective review consisting of 84 patients who underwent thymectomy because different thymic disorders especially thymoma was performed. Eighteen patients underwent CO2-less VATS single port thymectomy, while 66 underwent thymectomy through open sternotomy. Many clinical factors associated with the surgical and clinical outcomes, including tumor recurrence and clinical remission, were recorded. RESULTS Non major postoperative complications were observed in any group. The median operative time and postoperative hospital stay of CO2-less VATS single port thymectomy were 95 min and 1 day, respectively and 120 min and 7 days for open sternotomy. The thymoma was the most common thymic disorder with 7 patients (38%) in VATS group and 28 patients (42.4%) for the open approach. The median lesion size was 2.6 cm in the VATS group and 3.2 cm in the open approach. No thymoma recurrence in patients undergoing VATS was observed during the follow-up time, while in the open surgery group 14.28% recurrence was observed, distributed as follows: loco-regional 75% and 25% at distance; free disease period of these patients was 8.3 months. Thymectomy associated with myasthenia gravis (MG) was observed in 6 (33%) patients in the VATS group and 32 (48%) patients for sternotomy; our results regarding thymectomy for the treatment of MG were established by the MG post-intervention status [complete stable remission (CSR), pharmacologic remission, minimal manifestations, improved, unchanged and worse exacerbation, and died of MG] and reflected similar results in both approaches. CONCLUSIONS CO2-less VATS single-port thymectomy is a feasible and safe procedure. Oncologic outcomes are similar to open approaches. Complications, surgical time and hospital stay are shorter compared with sternotomy. This is an initial experience, further work is required to evaluate long-term results.