Background: The recent SARS-CoV-2 pandemic raises many scientific and clinical questions. One set of questions involves host genetic factors that may affect disease susceptibility and pathogenesis. New work is emerging related to SARS-CoV-2; previous work has been conducted on other coronaviruses that affect different species. Objectives: We aimed to review the literature on host genetic factors related to coronaviruses, with a systematic focus on human studies. Methods: We conducted a PubMed-based search and analysis for articles relevant to host genetic factors in coronavirus. We categorized articles, summarized themes related to animal studies, and extracted data from human studies for analyses. Results: We identified 1,187 articles of potential relevance. Forty-five studies were related to human host genetic factors related to coronavirus, of which 35 involved analysis of specific genes or loci; aside from one meta-analysis on respiratory infections, all were candidate-driven studies, typically investigating small number of research subjects and loci. Multiple significant loci were identified, including 16 related to susceptibility to coronavirus (of which 7 identified protective alleles), and 16 related to outcomes or clinical variables (of which 3 identified protective alleles). The types of cases and controls used varied considerably; four studies used traditional replication/validation cohorts. Of the other studies, 28 involved both human and non-human host genetic factors related to coronavirus, 174 involved study of non-human (animal) host genetic factors related to coronavirus, 584 involved study of non-genetic host factors related to coronavirus, including involving immunopathogenesis, 16 involved study of other pathogens (not coronavirus), 321 involved other studies of coronavirus, and 18 studies were assigned to the other categories and removed. Key findings: We have outlined key genes and loci from animal and human host genetic studies that may bear investigation in the nascent host genetic factor studies of COVID-19. Previous human studies to date have been limited by issues that may be less impactful on current endeavors, including relatively low numbers of eligible participants and limited availability of advanced genomic methods.