BACKGROUND: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is associated with majority of trauma deaths, and objective tools are required to understand the severity of injury. The application of a biomarker like procalcitonin (PCT) in TBI may allow for assessment of severity and thus aid in prognostication and correlation with mortality and outcome. AIMS: The primary objective is to determine the correlation between PCT concentrations with TBI outcomes (mainly in terms of mortality) at intensive care unit (ICU)/hospital discharge. Secondary objectives are to evaluate correlation with associated extra cranial injuries and complications during hospital stay. METHODS: In total, 186 TBI patients aged > 18 years with minimum survival for at least 12 h admitted to the ICU at the level 1 trauma center were prospectively included in the study and divided into two groups: TBI with and without extra cranial injuries. All admitted patients were treated according to the standard institutional protocol. The PCT levels were obtained on admission, on day 2, and 5. Clinical, laboratory, diagnostic, and therapeutic data were also collected. Primary mortality is defined as death related to central nervous system (CNS) injury, while secondary mortality defined as death related to sepsis or extracranial cause. RESULTS: Median PCT levels at admission, day 2, and day 5 in TBI patients with extracranial injuries were 3.0, 0.83, and 0.69 ng/ml. In total, primary mortality was observed in 18 (9.7%) patients, while secondary causes were attributable in 20 (12.3%) patients. Regression analysis for primarily CNS cause of mortality showed PCT cutoff level at admission more than 5.5 ng/ml carried sensitivity and specificity of 75%, but for secondary cause (sepsis) of mortality, PCT cutoff values on day 2 > 1.15 ng/ml were derived significant with sensitivity of 70% and specificity of 66%. No significant association of parameters like length of ICU stay, Glasgow outcome scale (GOS), and primary/secondary mortality with the presence of extracranial injuries in TBI patients as compared with TBI alone was noted. CONCLUSION: This observational study demonstrates the poor correlation between PCT concentrations with outcome at days 1, 2, and 5 post-injury. The predicted relationship between PCT levels and outcome was not confirmed, and that these results do not support the prognostic utility of PCT biomarker in this population for outcome (mortality) assessment in TBI patients with or without extracranial injuries.