The immunocapture-based ELISA for extracellular vesicles (EVs)/exosomes, originally described in 2009 by Logozzi and colleagues, allows to capture, detect, characterize and quantify extracellular vesicles in both human body fluids and cell culture supernatants. It is based on the use of two antibodies directed one against a typical exosomal housekeeping protein and the second against either another exosomal housekeeping protein or a potential disease marker: the first antibody is used for the capture of exosomes, the second for the quantification and characterization of the captured vesicles. In fact, with this method it is possible both to characterize and count exosomes and to detect the presence of disease, including tumor, biomarkers. This needs of course to preliminary obtain an EVs purification from the clinical sample; the most agreed method to get to an EVs purification is the repeated rounds of ultracentrifugation, that, while far to be perfect, is the methodological approach allowing to not exclude EVs subpopulation from the separation procedure and to analyze a full range of EVs from both qualitative and quantitative point of view. The immunocapture-based approach has proven to be highly useful in screening, diagnosis and prognosis of tumors, in plasma samples. One amazing information provided by this method is that cancer patients have always significantly higher levels of EVs, in particular of exosomes, independently from the histological nature of the tumor. One microenvironmental factor that is fully involved in the increased exosome release by tumors is the extracellular acidity. However, few pre-clinical data suggest that plasmatic levels of exosomes may correlate with the tumor mass. Some recent clinical reports suggest also that circulating exosomes represent the real delivery system for some known tumor markers that are presently on trial (e.g., PSA). Here we review the pros and cons of the immunocapture-based technique in quantitative and qualitative evaluation of EVs in both health and disease.