OBJECTIVES To develop and evaluate the efficacy and feasibility of Intracapsular Rotary-cut Procedure (IRCP) in laparoscopic myomectomy (LM). STUDY DESIGN It is a retrospective study conducted in Peking University Shenzhen Hospital (PUSH) in Shenzhen, China. A total of 96 patients who were treated with LM because of big and moderate size of myomas in PUSH from January 2013 and December 2015 were enrolled in this study. Among them 35 were managed with IRCP -integrated LM as the study group, while the other 61 were treated with normal LM as the control group. The core steps of IRCP include minimized uterine incision, rotary cuttings in the fibroid inside the pseudocapsule, and preserving the fibers and vessels of the fibroid pseudocapsule. The operation data and outcome variables of each patient in the two groups were collected and compared to evaluate the efficacy and feasibility of this new improved surgery procedure. RESULTS The ages, body mass indexes, main indication for myomectomy, and the diameters, numbers and types of the fibroids of patients in the two groups were similar. There is no significant difference in enucleation time and days of postoperative in-hospital staying between the two groups. In comparison with normal LM, application of IRCP significantly reduced the length of uterine incisions (P=0.000), the overall time of operations (P=0.001), and the time for uterine cavity suturing (P=0.000), and application of IRCP was also associated with less operation bleeding (P=0.003) and postoperative hemoglobin dropping (P=0.001). Five cases (8.2%) in the control group were referred to laparotomy, while no case was done so in the study group. No patient in the study group needed blood transfusion but six patients (9.8%) in the control group did. Follow-up to all the patients showed no uterine malignant tumor. CONCLUSIONS Our study provided strong supportive evidences showing that Intracapsular Rotary-cut Procedures is safe and practicable. The less uterine incision length, less surgery time, and less bleeding than the normal LM procedures all suggests that IRCP should be adopted in LM for facilitation to the operation procedures, minimization of operative invasiveness, and protection to patients' infertility.