BACKGROUND This paper adds to the series of systematic rapid living reviews, started in April 2020, to provide the rehabilitation community with updates on the latest scientific literature on rehabilitation needs due to the Covid-19 pandemic. OBJECTIVES To present the results of a systematic search performed on papers published from May 1st to May 31st, 2020. METHODS An extensive search on the main medical literature databases for articles published (including Epub), in English, from May 1st to May 31st, 2020 was performed, according to the methodology already described in the previous 2 rapid reviews, with 2 important improvements: first, we made the search string more comprehensive; second, we relied on accredited terminologies to describe the study designs and report the rehabilitation settings. RESULTS Fifty-eight out of 618 articles were finally included for qualitative analysis. The number of primary studies has increased, with respect to the previous months, although still around 60% papers are just expert opinions. Six papers report on the prevalence and /or characteristics of emerging disability after COVID-19, 12 on rehabilitation approaches to COVID-19 patients, up to 25 on the organization of rehabilitation services after COVID-19, 13 papers on the impact of COVID-19 on health conditions of rehabilitative interest and only 2 on late complications due to COVID-19 that may be of rehabilitative interest. CONCLUSIONS Nowadays, all patients with disability, regardless of COVID-19 infection, are suffering because of restrictions imposed to rehabilitation service delivery. Neurological involvement is often present during acute and post-acute stage, conveying the risk of a long-lasting disability. Accordingly, careful neurological monitoring should be granted. Although new therapies are under development, the main gap in the available scientific literature is the lack of high-quality primary studies, so experimental studies on the effects of rehabilitation are still warranted.