OBJECTIVE: Analyzing the symptom characteristics of Coronavirus Disease 2019(COVID-19) to improve control and prevention. METHODS: Using the Baidu Index Platform (http://index.baidu.com) and the website of Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention as data resources to obtain the search volume (SV) of keywords for symptoms associated with COVID-19 from January 1 to February 20 in each year from 2017 to 2020 and the epidemic data in Hubei province and the other top 9 impacted provinces in China. Data of 2020 were compared with those of the previous three years. Data of Hubei province were compared with those of the other 9 provinces. The differences and characteristics of the SV of COVID-19-related symptoms, and the correlations between the SV of COVID-19 and the number of newly confirmed/suspected cases were analyzed. The lag effects were discussed. RESULTS: Comparing the SV from January 1, 2020 to February 20, 2020 with those for the same period of the previous three years, Hubei's SV for cough, fever, diarrhea, chest tightness, dyspnea, and other symptoms were significantly increased. The total SV of lower respiratory symptoms was significantly higher than that of upper respiratory symptoms (P<0.001). The SV of COVID-19 in Hubei province was significantly correlated with the number of newly confirmed/suspected cases (r(confirmed) = 0.723, r(suspected) = 0.863, both P< 0.001). The results of the distributed lag model suggested that the patients who searched relevant symptoms on the Internet may begin to see doctors in 2-3 days later and be confirmed in 3-4 days later. CONCLUSION: The total SV of lower respiratory symptoms was higher than that of upper respiratory symptoms, and the SV of diarrhea also increased significantly. It warned us to pay attention to not only the symptoms of the lower respiratory tract but also the gastrointestinal symptoms, especially diarrhea in patients with COVID-19. Internet search behavior had a positive correlation with the number of newly confirmed/suspected cases, suggesting that big data has an important role in the early warning of infectious diseases.