OBJECTIVE Inferior vena cava (IVC) thrombosis is an uncommon condition but can cause devastating complications to those affected. Historically, this has been treated with an open surgical approach (with high morbidity) and with angioplasty in more recent years. Herein we describe technical aspects of stenting of the IVC in patients with recalcitrant chronic occlusive disease and evaluate its outcomes. METHODS We reviewed all the patients treated in an endovascular fashion for venous disease at our institution from 2005 to 2014 to identify and to include those with IVC stent placement in this study. Clinical characteristics, treatment details, and outcomes data were collected from medical records. Primary end points were technical success, symptom resolution, freedom from reintervention, and patency rate at follow-up. RESULTS Twenty-eight patients (15 men) with a mean age of 48 ± 2.7 years underwent IVC stent placement for 16 occlusions (4 congenital) and 12 high-grade stenoses. Hypercoagulable state was noted in 14 patients, 7 of whom had malignant disease. A previously placed IVC filter was present in 13 patients. Median time from onset of symptoms to presentation was 81 months (3-480 months). Lytic therapy with tissue plasminogen activator (Alteplase) was performed in 12 patients for a median of 2 days (range, 1-3 days). Self-expanding stents (Wallstent; Boston Scientific, Natick, Mass) were used most commonly in the IVC (n = 22) with or without adjunctive use of balloon-expandable stents (Palmaz stent; Cordis, New Brunswick, NJ). Technical success was 100%. At median follow-up of 10 months (range, 0-56 months), thrombotic complications requiring reintervention occurred in four patients at 1, 4, 8, and 37 months. One patient died at 2 weeks secondary to underlying malignant disease. Freedom from reintervention, patency rate, and symptom-free survival rate at 2 years were 84%, 90%, and 80%. CONCLUSIONS Endovascular stenting for chronic occlusive disease of the IVC is safe and effective in the midterm follow-up, with minimal morbidity. Reintervention rate is low, with excellent functional outcomes.