BACKGROUND: According to the World Health Organization reports, billions of people around the world are at risk for malaria disease and it is important to consider the preventive strategies for protecting the people that are living in high risk areas. One of the main reasons of disease survival is diversity of vectors and parasites in different malaria regions that have their specific features, behaviour and biology. Therefore, specific regional strategies are necessary for successful control of malaria. One of the tools that needs to be developed for elimination and prevention of reintroduction of malaria is a vaccine that interrupt malaria transmission (VIMTs). VIMT is a broad concept that should be adjusted to the biological characteristics of the disease in each region. One type of VIMT is a vector-based vaccine that affects the sexual stage of Plasmodium life cycle. According to recent studies, the aminopeptidase N-1 of Anopheles gambiae (AgAPN-1) is as a potent vector-based VIMT with considerable inhibition activity against the sexual stage of Plasmodium parasite. METHODS: Systems for rapid amplification of cDNA ends (3ʹ-RACE) and genome walking methods were used for sequence determination of apn-1 gene from Anopheles stephensi and distinct bioinformatics software were used for structural analysis. AsAPN-1 was expressed in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) insect cell line using the baculovirus expression system. Recombinant AsAPN-1 was purified under the hybrid condition and its biological activity was assayed. RESULTS: Asapn-1 gene and its coded protein from An. stephensi were characterized for the first time in this study. Subsequently, the structural features and immunological properties of its coded protein were evaluated by in silico approaches. Enzymatic activity of the recombinant AsAPN-1, which was expressed in Sf9 insect cell line, was equal to 6 unit/μl. CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study revealed that AsAPN-1 is very similar to its counterpart in An. gambiae. In silico evaluation and fundamental data which are necessary for its evaluation as a VIMT-based vaccine in the next steps were acquired in this study and those could be useful for research groups that study on malaria vaccine for countries that An. stephensi is the main malaria vector there.