BACKGROUND New technology for single-incision laparoscopic colectomy is now commercially available, yet advantages of this approach over multiport laparoscopic colectomy have not been demonstrated. OBJECTIVE This study aimed to compare the outcomes of patients who underwent single-incision vs multiport laparoscopic colectomies. DESIGN Consecutive patients who underwent single-incision laparoscopic colectomies were case matched to patients who underwent multiport laparoscopic colectomies by age, operation, surgeon, diagnosis, and body mass index. Data from a prospective database and the medical records of patients treated were reviewed. SETTINGS This study took place at 2 tertiary care hospitals. PATIENTS Forty-six consecutive patients with a body mass index of 24 underwent single-incision laparoscopic colectomies (24 right, 18 sigmoid, 4 low anterior resection). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Perioperative outcomes and cosmesis and body image scores at 90 days were compared. RESULTS The largest incision length was significantly shorter for the single-incision group. Two patients with single incisions were converted to hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery and 4 required placement of a 5-mm trocar. A significantly greater portion of the operation was performed by the attending surgeons in the single-incision group. For right colectomies, operative times were similar. For left colectomies, operative time (149 ± 30 vs 126 ± 21 min) was significantly longer for the single-incision group. Time to flatus and bowel movements were significantly shorter for the single-incision group, but length of stay was similar. Cosmetic score was higher for the single-incision group (P = .03). CONCLUSIONS Single incision is equivalent to multiport laparoscopic colectomy with regard to safety and efficacy with smaller incision size and higher cosmetic scores. Operative times were equivalent, although a greater portion of the operation was performed by the attending surgeons in the single-incision group. Further prospective studies are warranted to evaluate the advantages of single-incision laparoscopic colectomy.