The aim of this paper was to investigate the therapeutic effect of Compound Qinlan Oral Liquid recommended by Provincial Novel Coronary Virus Pneumonia Treatment Scheme on the treatment of BALB/c mice with combining disease with syndrome of human coronavirus pneumonia with pestilence attacking lung syndrome and to explore its clinical application in the treatment of novel coronavirus pneumonia, and to provide laboratory data support for clinical Chinese medicine. According to the classification of syndromes of novel coronavirus pneumonia by the national competent department of traditional Chinese medicine, this study determined that human coronavirus 229 E(HCoV-229 E)-infected mouse model of cold and dampness syndrome can be used to study human coronavirus pneumonia combined with pestilence attacking the lung syndrome model. This model is suitable for simulating traditional Chinese medicine treatment of common disease syndromes in Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment program(trial implementation of the sixth edition). Specific steps are as follows. BALB/c mice of cold and dampness syndrome is infected with HCoV-229 E virus, and were divided into normal control group, infection control group, cold-dampness control group, cold-dampness infection group(the model group), and Compound Qilan Oral Liquid high dose group(22 mL·kg~(-1)·d~(-1)) and low dose group(11 mL·kg~(-1)·d~(-1)). On the day of infection, the Compound Qilan Oral Liquid was administered for three consecutive days. On the last dosing day, the lung tissue was dissected, and the lung index and inhibition rate were calculated. The nucleic acid of lung tissue was extracted and the HCoV-229 E virus load was detected by RT-PCR. Blood leukocytes were separated and the percentage of T and B lymphocytes was detected by flow cytometry. Lung tissue protein was extracted and the contents of IL-6, IL-10, TNF-&#945; and IFN-Î³ were detected by ELISA. Serum was separated and the contents of gastrin(GAS) and motilin(MTL) were detected by ELISA. Histopathological analysis was performed with lung tissue. The high and low doses of Compound Qinlan Oral Liquid significantly reduced the lung index(P<0.01) of mice with combining disease with syndrome of human coronavirus pneumonia with pestilence attacking lung syndrome, and the inhibition rates were 59.01% and 47.72%, respectively. Compared with the model control group, the high and low doses of Compound Qinlan Oral Liquid significantly reduced lung tissue viral load(P<0.01), increased cross blood CD4~+ T lymphocytes, CD8~+ T lymphocytes and total B lymphocyte percentage(P<0.01), reduced serum motilin content(P<0.01), reduced IL-6, IL-10, TNF-&#945; and IFN-Î³ levels in lungs(P<0.01) and reduced lung tissue inflammation. Compound Qinlan Oral Liquid has a better effect on the mouse model with combining disease with syndrome of human coronavirus pneumonia with pestilence attacking lung syndrome, which may attribute to its function of in virus replication inhibition, gastrointestinal function improvement, immunity enhancement, and inflammatory factor reduction.