BACKGROUND AND AIMS Large ventral hernias are often associated with physical, social, and health problems for the patient, and surgical repair remains a challenge. Open components separation has widely been applied to obtain closure of the midline and recently a minimally invasive technique has been introduced (endoscopic components separation). The effectiveness and safety of endoscopic components separation have been demonstrated in previous reports, whereas little is known about quality of life in these patients. With a focus on quality of life, we present the first patients from our center operated on with endoscopic components separation. MATERIAL AND METHODS A total of 19 consecutive patients scheduled for open hernia repair with endoscopic components separation from October 2010 to June 2012 were included. All procedures included endoscopic components separation because of the hernia size. Demographic data, operative information, and postoperative complications were recorded. All patients completed two similar questionnaires regarding their function level, cosmetic satisfaction, analgesic medication, alcohol consumption, and self-estimated physical and mental health before and after the hernia repair. Patients were assessed as outpatient median 2 months and 16 months after operation for exclusion of hernia recurrence and completion of the postoperative questionnaire. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS Operating room time was median 204 min and correlated significantly with the hernia size. A total of 21 postoperative complications occurred in 14 patients. The length of stay was median 6 days and correlated significantly with duration of the operation. Of these, 15 patients participated in late follow-up visit. Two patients experienced recurrent hernias. Postoperative function level, cosmetic satisfaction, and self-estimated physical and mental health improved significantly. Alcohol consumption was significantly reduced. Endoscopic components separation is a reliable method to repair large ventral hernias, although further studies are required to determine the exact benefits for endoscopic components separation hernia repair versus conventional hernia repair.