BACKGROUND: The incidence of osteoporosis (OP) is increasing year by year. researches have shown that there was an intense link between the vitamin D (VitD) status and the efficacy of zoledronate (ZOL) in patients with osteoporosis. Since VitD is related to the geogen, its promotion effect on zoledronate has regional specificity. AIM: Combining dual-energy X-ray and bone turnover markers (BTM) to explore the VitD level in postmenopausal osteoporosis patients in Harbin and monitor its effect on the anti-osteoporosis effect of ZOL. METHODS: A total of 120 patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO) were enrolled .These patients were divided into two groups with 25(OH)D levels = 10ng/ml as a critical point, and each group was randomly divided into experimental groups and control groups). All of the patients were conducted 5 mg ZOL. Then the experimental group was given calcitriol and calcium carbonate, and the control group was only given calcium carbonate. BTM were measured at baseline, 24h, 3 months and 6 months. We also measured bone mineral density (BMD) of bilateral hips (TH BMD) and lumbar spine (LS BMD) at baseline and 6 months. RESULTS: The VitD deficiency rates of the patients enrolled were 84.1%. There was an inverse relationship between the baseline level of VitD and the serum levels of P1NP / ß-CTX, (r=-0.452,p=0.00; r=-0.225, p=0.01). Comparing with baseline, the level of serum P1NP,ß-CTX in each group declined significantly after the treatment (P<0.05). The mean decreasing rates of P1NP and ß-CTX in the both experimental groups were significantly higher than that of the corresponding control groups at the same time point (P<0.05), after 6 months of medication. Both TH BMD and LS BMD at 6 months increased significantly. The increase rate of LS BMD in the high VitD experimental group was significantly higher than the other three groups (P<0.05), the increase rates of TH BMD in the low VitD control group were significantly lower than the other three groups (P<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: The levels of serum VitD in the patients enrolled in this study were generally low. VitD could increase the therapeutic effect of ZOL on osteoporosis.