OBJECTIVES Although simulation is considered integral to general surgery training, its role has only recently been recognized in thoracic surgical education, perhaps due to a lack of widely available, validated simulators for advanced thoracic procedures. This study evaluates the construct, content and face validity of an inexpensive, easily reproducible simulator for teaching thoracoscopic lobectomy. METHODS Construct validity (ability of the simulator to discriminate between users of different skill levels) was assessed by having surgical trainees perform a lobectomy on the simulator. Participants were divided into three groups (experienced, intermediate and novice) based on self-reported experience with minimally invasive surgery. After instruction and practice time to limit the effect of any simulator-specific learning curve, each performed a left upper lobectomy that was scored using a standardized assessment tool incorporating total time plus weighted penalty minutes assigned for errors. Content validity (simulator requires same steps and decision-making as a clinical lobectomy) was assessed using a Likert scale by those participants who had previously seen a thoracoscopic lobectomy in a patient. RESULTS Thirty-one residents participated in the study (12 experienced, 6 intermediate and 13 novice). All 12 experienced participants completed the lobectomy. The other groups were less successful with 4 of 6 in the intermediate group and 5 of 13 in the novice group completing the lobectomy (P = 0.004). The mean times for lobectomy + penalty minutes were 35 + 6.8 (experienced), 50 + 13 (intermediate) and 54 + 20 (novice). Differences between groups were statistically significant for experienced vs. novice (P < 0.001) and experienced vs. intermediate (P < 0.04). Content validity was assessed by the 18 participants who had previously seen a thoracoscopic lobectomy with a mean of 9.2 of 10 possible points. CONCLUSIONS The thoracoscopic lobectomy simulator used in this study demonstrates acceptable validity and can be a useful tool for teaching thoracoscopic lobectomy to trainees or experienced surgeons.