BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: COVID‐19 has pushed many geriatric healthcare providers to attempt video visits for the first time. While the Veterans Health Administration (VA) is a pioneer in telemedicine, rapid shifts to nearly exclusive use of telehealth for healthcare delivery and changes regarding trainee engagement in telehealth served as the impetus for rapidly assessing telehealth training needs. DESIGN/SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Trainees (n=89) representing 12 disciplines affiliated with VA Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Centers (GRECCs) were surveyed regarding prior experience conducting video‐to‐home visits and training needs. RESULTS: Two‐thirds had received some telehealth training. However, the majority had never done a video‐to‐home visit and, regardless of telehealth experience, reported low confidence. Based on open‐ended questions exploring training needs, educational resources were rapidly developed and disseminated. Intervention: Within one week of the assessment, a nuts‐and‐bolts guide regarding remote access, technology requirements, video conferencing platforms, and managing emergencies was sent to the national network of GRECC Associate Directors for Education for dissemination among discipline‐specific training directors at their sites. Subsequently, this resource was submitted to the national VA COVID Strong Practices SharePoint site. Additionally, an interdisciplinary team of geriatric specialists with extensive video‐to‐home experience organized a national webinar, which peaked at just over 700 participants. “GRECC Connect,” a network of geriatric specialty teams funded to improve care access for rural older Veterans using telehealth, and Associated Health Training programs at each GRECC, facilitated rapid development and dissemination of both resources. CONCLUSION: We rapidly identified and responded to telehealth training needs of geriatrics trainees to optimize care for rural older adults as part of a rapid response to COVID‐19. While the webinar and nuts‐and‐bolts resources were developed within the VA context, they have demonstrated high demand and broader applicability. Results should continue to inform curriculum development efforts to address telehealth training gaps within and outside the VA. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.