OBJECTIVES The use of bipolar sealing devices during pulmonary resection is particularly useful in thoracoscopic surgery. Theoretically, a bipolar device, which contains the current in a smaller area and completes the current cycle only through the tissue between the electrodes, may reduce the proportion of patients experiencing atrial fibrillation compared with monopolar devices such as the electrosurgical pencil using which the current completes the cycle through the patient. We investigated the impact of the LigaSure™ (LS) tissue fusion technology with the ForceTriad™ energy platform device on the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation and on the reduction of postoperative chest tube output and hospital length of stay after open pulmonary lobectomy. METHODS A pilot prospective randomized, controlled trial comparing LS tissue fusion technology with the ForceTriad™ energy platform to the conventional electrosurgical pencil. Overall, 146 patients with resectable lung cancer were recruited at the Division of Thoracic Surgery of the Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Fondazione Pascale, IRCCS, between January 2011 and July 2013. Of these, 119 candidates to open lobectomy for non-small-cell lung cancer were randomized to either LS tissue fusion technology with the ForceTriad™ energy platform (LS: 57 patients) or standard haemostatic procedure (standard treatment, ST: 62 patients) for hilar and mediastinal nodal dissection. The primary end-point was to compare the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation of LS compared with ST. The secondary end-point was to compare the efficacy of LS compared with ST in terms of total chest tube drainage, daily chest tube drainage and chest tube duration. RESULTS There was no statistically significant difference between LS and ST in terms of postoperative atrial fibrillation (P=0.31). However, LS was associated to significant reduction of duration of both mediastinal nodal dissection (P=0.017) and the cumulative chest tube drainage (P=0.025). CONCLUSIONS The incidence of atrial fibrillation with LS tissue fusion technology with the ForceTriad™ energy platform is not reduced as compared with conventional electrosurgical pencil. However, the use of LS during mediastinal nodal dissection is associated to shorter duration of lymphadenectomy and duration of chest tube drainage.