BACKGROUND Abdominoplasty patients are frequently candidates for breast rejuvenation as well. Transabdominal breast augmentation permits insertion of breast implants through the abdominoplasty incision. This combined procedure is preferentially performed in an outpatient setting under monitored anesthesia care and nerve blocks. METHODS This study was a 14-year retrospective review of a single surgeon's technique and outcomes using transabdominal breast augmentation through a low transverse abdominoplasty incision in select patients requesting simultaneous abdominoplasty and bilateral breast augmentation. Patients had minimal ptosis, smoking cessation a minimum of 4 weeks before surgery and indefinitely thereafter, and a lack of superior abdominal or significant breast surgery. RESULTS The study's 114 patients had a mean follow-up of 19.2 months. The procedure was performed under monitored anesthesia care with intercostal nerve blocks for most patients [n = 107 (93.9 percent)] and general anesthesia [n = 7 (6.1 percent)] for a few. Seventy-nine patients [n = 74 (64.9 percent)] underwent additional procedures, with most (n = 48) undergoing suction-assisted lipectomy. Many patients underwent multiple procedures. Most complications occurred predictably along the central distal abdominoplasty flap and were minor (small wound breakdown, seroma, and mild skin infection). Major complications [n = 8 (7.0 percent)] included two patients with implant malposition requiring revision and one patient with a Baker grade III capsule; notably, this patient was a half-pack-per-day smoker with a body mass index of 27 kg/m. CONCLUSIONS Transabdominal breast augmentation is a safe, reliable procedure in the appropriately selected, healthy patient and may be used in minimally to moderately ptotic patients who request concurrent breast augmentation and abdominoplasty. Morbidity compares favorably to reported abdominoplasty series in the appropriately selected patient. CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Therapeutic, IV.