INTRODUCTION Dysphagia is highly prevalent in patients with acquired brain injury (ABI) and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. However, dysphagia management varies greatly between units and internationally, and there is currently no consensus, standard intervention or treatment. A review mapping the existing literature on dysphagia treatment is needed. In this paper, the protocol for a scoping review to identify and map dysphagia treatment following ABI is outlined. OBJECTIVE The objective of the scoping review is to systematically map the existing research literature to answer the research question: Which non-surgical, non-pharmacological interventions are used in the treatment of dysphagia in patients with moderate and severe acquired brain injury in the acute and subacute phase? METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The methodological framework for the study is based on methodology by Arksey and O'Malley and methodological advancement by Levac et al. We will search electronic databases in June 2019: MEDLINE (Ovid); Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library); EMBASE (Ovid); CINAHL (EBSCO); PsycINFO; Science Citation Index Expanded on Web of Science; OTseeker; Speechbite and PEDro. The search terms will be limited to patients with moderate to severe ABI and dysphagia. Four review authors will independently conduct an initial screening of title and abstract and subsequent full-text review of included studies. Data will be extracted and summarised in diagrammatic or tabular form (numerical summary), and a descriptive format (narrative summary). The strategy for data synthesis entails qualitative methods to categorise the interventions based on the treatment modality and subgroup diagnosis. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION Scoping the existing literature will provide a foundation for further evaluating and developing our dysphagia treatment and inform future studies assessing the effectiveness of treatments. The review is part of an ongoing expansive research into dysphagia. The results will be disseminated through a peer-reviewed publication and conference presentations.