INTRODUCTION Over the last two decades, patient portals have emerged as a noticeable eHealth strategy. To date, research on patient portals has been rapidly increasing. Our umbrella review aims to provide a meta-level synthesis to make sense of the evidence on patient portals from published systematic reviews (SRs). METHODS We will employ a modified version of the Joanna Briggs Institute umbrella review method. The search strategy encompasses multiple databases. The inclusion criterion is specific to SRs focused on patient portal. Patients or public were not involved in this work. ANALYSIS Two researchers will independently screen titles/abstracts and then full-text articles against the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Methodological quality of included reviews will be assessed and data will be extracted from the final selection of reviews. These reviews will be categorised into quantitative, qualitative and/or mixed-synthesis groups based on information about the design of primary studies provided in the reviews. Correspondingly, we will create quantitative, qualitative and/or mixed-synthesis Excel data-extraction tables. Within each table, data will be extracted with the reference to primary studies as reported in the reviews, and will be synthesised into themes and then a smaller number of findings/outcomes. Modified Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) and Confidence in the Evidence from Reviews of Qualitative research (CERQual) tools will be applied to assess the strength of evidence at the level of each finding/outcome. The output of our umbrella review will consist of summary of findings tables and evidence profile tables. A narrative meta-level synthesis will be provided. We will use the clinical adoption meta-model as an organising framework. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION As an outcome of this review, we will create a guidance and roadmap to be used in a future Delphi study to gather feedback from Canadian eHealth stakeholders. We will also present at conferences and publish the final report. The umbrella review does not require ethical approval. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER CRD42018096657.