IMPORTANCE Anticoagulants are high-risk medications with the potential to cause significant patient harm or death. Digital transformation is occurring in hospital practice and it is essential to implement effective, evidence-based strategies for these medications in an electronic medical record (EMR). OBJECTIVE To systematically appraise the literature to determine which EMR interventions have improved the safety and quality of therapeutic anticoagulation in an inpatient hospital setting. METHODS PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, and the International Pharmaceutical Database were searched for suitable publications. Articles that met eligibility criteria up to September 2018 were included. The review was registered with PROSPERO (CRD42018104899). The web-based software platform Covidence® was used for screening and data extraction. Studies were grouped according to the type of intervention and the outcomes measured. Where relevant, a bias assessment was performed. RESULTS We found 2624 candidate articles and 27 met inclusion criteria. They included 3 randomised controlled trials, 4 cohort studies and 20 pre/post observational studies. There were four major interventions; computerised physician order entry (CPOE) (n = 4 studies), clinical decision support system (CDSS) methods (n = 21), dashboard utilisation (n = 1) and EMR implementation in general (n = 1). Seven outcomes were used to summarise the study results. Most research focused on prescribing or documentation compliance (n = 18). The remaining study outcome measures were: medication errors (n = 9), adverse drug events (n = 5), patient outcomes (morbidity/mortality/length of hospital stay/re-hospitalisation) (n = 5), quality use of anticoagulant (n = 4), end-user acceptance (n = 4), cost effectiveness (n = 1). CONCLUSION Despite the research cited, limited benefits have been demonstrated to date. It appears healthcare organisations are yet to determine optimal, evidence-based-methods to improve EMR utilisation. Further evaluation, collaboration and work are necessary to measure and leverage the potential benefits of digital health systems. Most research evaluating therapeutic anticoagulation management within an EMR focused on prescribing or documentation compliance, with less focus on clinical impact to the patient or cost effectiveness. Evidence suggests that CPOE in conjunction with CDSS is needed to effectively manage therapeutic anticoagulation. Targets for robust research include the integration of 'stealth' alerts, nomograms into digital systems and the use of dashboards within clinical practice.