KEY POINTS While it has been well described that prolonged vibration locally applied to a muscle or its tendon (up to 1 h) decreases spinal loop excitability between homonymous Ia afferents and motoneurons, the involved mechanisms are not fully understood. By combining electrophysiological methods, this study aimed to provide new insights on the mechanisms involved in LV post-effect in SOL spinal excitability after prolonged LV. We reported that prolonged vibration induces a decrease in motoneuron excitability rather than an increase in presynaptic mechanisms (as commonly hypothesized in the current literature) The present results may help to design appropriate clinical intervention and could reinforce the interest of vibration as a treatment in spastic patients who are characterized by spinal hyper-excitability responsible for spasms and long-lasting reflexes. ABSTRACT The mechanisms that can explain the decreased spinal loop excitability in response to prolonged local vibration (LV), as assessed by the H-reflex, remain to be precisely determined. This study provides new insights on how prolonged Achilles tendon LV (30 min, 100 Hz) acutely interacts with the spinal circuitry. The roles of presynaptic inhibition exerted on Ia afferents (Experiment A, n = 15), neurotransmitter release at the synapse level (Experiment B, n = 11) and motoneuron excitability (Experiment C, n = 11) were investigated in soleus (SOL). Modulation of presynaptic inhibition was assessed by conditioning the SOL H-reflex (tibial nerve electrical stimulation) with fibular nerve (D1 inhibition) and femoral nerve (heteronymous facilitation, HF) electrical stimulations. Potential vibration-induced changes in neurotransmitter depletion at the Ia afferent terminals was assessed through paired stimulations applied over the tibial nerve (HD). Intrinsic motoneuron excitability was assessed with thoracic motor evoked potentials (TMEPs) in response to electrical stimulation over the thoracic spine. Non-conditioned H-reflex was depressed by ∼60% after LV (p < 0.001), while D1 and HF H-reflexes increased by ∼75% after LV (p = 0.03 and 0.06, respectively). In Experiment B, HD remained unchanged at POST (p = 0.80). In Experiment C, TMEPs were reduced by ∼13% at POST (p = 0.01). Overall, presynaptic mechanisms do not seem to be involved in the depression of spinal excitability after LV. It rather seems to rely, at least in part, on a decrease in intrinsic motoneuron excitability. These results may have implications in reducing spinal hyper-excitability in spastic patients. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.