OBJECTIVES The aim was to determine whether physician modified stent grafts (PMSGs) are safe and effective for the treatment of high risk patients with thoraco-abdominal aortic aneurysms (TAAAs). DESIGN This was a retrospective single institution study. MATERIAL Consecutive patients with TAAA undergoing endovascular repair using a PMSG between January 2012 and June 2014 were evaluated. METHODS Fenestrations to preserve branch vessels were created in TX2 thoracic (Cook Medical) stent grafts. Pre- intra- and post-operative data were recorded by means of a prospectively maintained database. RESULTS Eleven high risk patients with TAAA (type I, n = 4; type III, n = 3; type IV, n = 3; type V, n = 1) underwent fenestrated endovascular repair using PMSGs. Indications were painful aneurysm (n = 5), >70 mm rapidly enlarging aneurysm (n = 4), saccular aneurysm (n = 1), and visceral patch false aneurysm after open repair of a type IV TAAA (n = 1). In four asymptomatic patients, an additional fenestration was created for temporary selective sac perfusion and occluded 2-4 weeks later. Median duration for stent graft modifications was 2 hours (range 1-3 hours). The median number of fenestrations was three (range 2-4). One patient died during the post-operative period from colonic ischemia, giving a 9% in hospital mortality rate. Four (36%) patients presented with moderate to severe complications. One (9%) patient presented with a paraparesis that resolved completely after spinal fluid drainage. Among surviving patients, four required early endovascular re-intervention for type III endoleak (n = 2), type Ia endoleak (n = 1), or target vessel cannulation failure (n = 1). The median follow up time was 6 months (range 3-20 months). During follow up, no other complications occurred and all target vessels remained patent. One patient presented with a persistent type II endoleak. CONCLUSION PMSGs provided acceptable short-term results and may be a management option for the treatment of TAAA in selected high risk patients. Durability concerns need to be assessed in additional studies with long-term follow up.