The aim of this study was to show a different technique for a gasless laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) hysterectomy and to present advantages and limitations of this technique. Women undergoing gasless LESS hysterectomy with a different technique were evaluated. A total of 14 LESS hysterectomies were performed using this gasless technique and rigid laparoscopic instruments by one surgeon. The mean age of the patients was 48.6 (±4.6). The average blood loss was 80 ± 35 ml. The average time between an umbilical incision and starting hysterectomy was 5 (±2,1) min. The time between starting hysterectomy and umbilical incision closure was 120 (±24) min in the laparoscopic suture group and 88 (±16) min in the vaginal suture group. The mean uterus weight was 188 (±95) g. In conclusion, this different technique is feasible and low cost, especially in non-obese patients. But further studies with large participants are needed to elucidate the safety. Impact statement Conventional CO2 pneumoperitoneum has many adverse effects on cardiopulmonary function, haemodynamic, metabolic and neurologic systems due to high-intraperitoneal pressure. The usage of gasless technique eliminates these adverse effects and postoperative shoulder pain. The satisfaction of patients is higher in laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) hysterectomy due to improved cosmesis and reduced postoperative analgesic requirements. In the literature, there are a few studies showing techniques combining LESS and gasless laparoscopy for hysterectomy. In this study, a different approach for creating operational space in gasless laparoscopy is described. Creation of intraabdominal operational space is convenient and takes a short time in this technique. The average time between an umbilical incision and starting a hysterectomy is five minutes. Additional training is not needed for experienced surgeons in LESS. Also, cost-effectiveness is one of important advantages. It is quite safe, no possibility of vascular injury, including inferior epigastric or superficial epigastric vessels. Also suturing the vaginal cuff and knot tying is easier in this technique. This technique can be used safely in patients with poor cardiopulmonary reserve. Also, by means of its cost effectiveness, it can be preferred in developing countries. As a result, it may be a good alternative to conventional LESS hysterectomy.