Since the rapid emergence of the novel coronavirus in December of 2019 and subsequent development of a global pandemic, clinicians around the world have struggled to understand and respond effectively and efficiently. With global response encompassing social, political, organizational, and economic realms, world leaders are struggling to keep pace with the rapid changes. Challenges within global healthcare system and the healthcare profession itself include rationing supplies and services within health care systems, many of which were stretched to the brink before this latest viral outbreak (American Hospital Association, 2020). Leaders are making policy decisions while balancing the slow and precise nature of science with the rapid and pressing need for life-saving information (Altmann, Douek, & Boyton, 2020). Shortcuts on research are occurring, including publishing papers with lack of peer review. Social media and lurid reporting bolster feelings of mistrust and panic-buying while burgeoning conspiracy theories commandeer national dialogue. This is a time in history to prioritize global health and thoughtful pandemic preparedness (Lancet, 2020). Pediatric Nurse Practitioners (PNPs) are ideally situated to be a trusted source of accurate health information for children. This continuing education article summarizes the latest evidence-based information on the rapidly developing coronavirus pandemic; equipping PNPs for clinical preparation and response. 1.. Distinguish risk factors for COVID-19-related morbidity and mortality and identify modes of transmission. 2.. Appraise appropriate COVID-19 testing parameters and procedures for children. 3.. Compare pediatric clinical presentation to adults with COVID-19 infection and recommend appropriate treatment measures. 4.. State appropriate infection-control measures to reduce transmission. 5.. Describe measures to reduce the risk of infection spread, mitigate adverse health effects in high-risk children, and to promote general health through preventive care.