A previously healthy patient was transferred to our infectious department with a 9-day-history of continued fever. The patient was placed on assisted respiration support in addition to anti-viral medication. The diagnosis of SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) was made in view of the severe hypoxemia and the characteristic symptoms exhibited by the patient. Despite the best intensive therapy, he clinically deteriorated into multiorgan dysfunction syndrome (MODS) including additional dysfunction of kidney, liver, and heart. We initiated MARS therapy (extracorporeal liver support utilizing albumin dialysis) with intention to positively influence the organ functions in his MODS on the basis of recently published studies which suggested a positive impact of MARS in multiorgan failure secondary to respiratory illnesses and the possible influence on inflammatory mediators and cytokines. The application of 4 intermittent MARS treatments (8 h each, mean blood flow rate 180 ml/min) on 4 consecutive days resulted in an immediate improvement of clinical conditions within the treatment days. The further improvement of organ functions allowed withdrawing the patient from ventilatory support 13 days after start of MARS, and 44 days after admission he was discharged home with completely resolved organ functions and laboratory abnormalities. SARS is a severe form of the epidemic outbreak of atypical pneumonia which remains poorly defined regarding etiology and special therapy recommendations. However, the development and aggravation of this ARDS-like severe acute respiratory syndrome is pathologically associated with the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) which may then mediate or cause MODS. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an application of MARS therapy in MODS which was probably induced by SARS in a patient in China which improved the clinical condition of the patient in multi-organ failure secondary to respiratory failure indicating that MARS might be an additional therapeutic option in multiorgan failure induced by SARS.