BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE Among patients with acute ischemic stroke, we determine computed tomographic perfusion (CTP) thresholds associated with follow-up infarction at different stroke onset-to-CTP and CTP-to-reperfusion times. METHODS Acute ischemic stroke patients with occlusion on computed tomographic angiography were acutely imaged with CTP. Noncontrast computed tomography and magnectic resonance diffusion-weighted imaging between 24 and 48 hours were used to delineate follow-up infarction. Reperfusion was assessed on conventional angiogram or 4-hour repeat computed tomographic angiography. Tmax, cerebral blood flow, and cerebral blood volume derived from delay-insensitive CTP postprocessing were analyzed using receiver-operator characteristic curves to derive optimal thresholds for combined patient data (pooled analysis) and individual patients (patient-level analysis) based on time from stroke onset-to-CTP and CTP-to-reperfusion. One-way ANOVA and locally weighted scatterplot smoothing regression was used to test whether the derived optimal CTP thresholds were different by time. RESULTS One hundred and thirty-two patients were included. Tmax thresholds of >16.2 and >15.8 s and absolute cerebral blood flow thresholds of <8.9 and <7.4 mL·min(-1)·100 g(-1) were associated with infarct if reperfused <90 min from CTP with onset <180 min. The discriminative ability of cerebral blood volume was modest. No statistically significant relationship was noted between stroke onset-to-CTP time and the optimal CTP thresholds for all parameters based on discrete or continuous time analysis (P>0.05). A statistically significant relationship existed between CTP-to-reperfusion time and the optimal thresholds for cerebral blood flow (P<0.001; r=0.59 and 0.77 for gray and white matter, respectively) and Tmax (P<0.001; r=-0.68 and -0.60 for gray and white matter, respectively) parameters. CONCLUSIONS Optimal CTP thresholds associated with follow-up infarction depend on time from imaging to reperfusion.