BACKGROUND: Exposures to indoor biological contaminants have been implicated in asthma's aetiology but their effect on lung function is not well quantified. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this cross‐sectional study of non‐smoking, asthmatic adults in Scotland was to determine the correlation between the results from a standard spirometry test, forced expiratory volume in one‐second percent (FEV (1)%), and quantitative estimates of some biological exposures. METHODS: A population (n = 55) of non‐smoking, adult asthmatics in Scotland was included in this study and each completed a questionnaire that allowed the determination of the Asthma Control Questionnaire scores (ACQ) and St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire scores (SGRQ), as well as corticosteroid use. Spirometry testing was completed and the pre‐bronchodilator FEV (1)% value calculated. At about the same time, floor dust samples were collected in the living room and in the bedroom. These dust samples were analysed for mould contamination, as described by the Environmental Relative Moldiness Index (ERMI) values and by (1, 3)‐β‐D‐glucan concentrations, for endotoxin, and for dust mite, cat, and dog allergen concentrations. The asthmatics' FEV (1)% values were tested for correlation (Pearson) to questionnaire‐based estimates of health. Also, each biological exposure was tested for correlation (Pearson) to the FEV (1)% values. RESULTS: FEV (1)% results were correlated with ACQ scores (ρ −0.586, P < 0.001), SGRQ scores (ρ −0.313, P = 0.020), and weakly with corticosteroid use (ρ −0.221, P = 0.105). The ERMI values in the homes (average 5.3) were significantly correlated with FEV (1)% values (ρ −0.378, P = 0.004). There was no correlation between FEV (1)% and concentrations of endotoxin, (1, 3)‐β‐D‐glucan, or any of the allergens. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Although these results do not prove that mould exposures caused the deficit in lung function observed in this study, it might be advisable for asthmatics to avoid high ERMI environments.