Current endoscopic anatomy interposes the gastric cardia between the tubular oesophagus and the proximal stomach. In contrast to that, recent evidence unfolds a different view. Using "PubMed" and "Scopus" searches, we examined if the novel understanding regarding the cardia goes in line with the concept of unfolding, as described by Heidegger based on the ancient didactic poetry of Parmenides. What has been taken as gastric cardia in fact represents reflux-damaged, dilated, columnar lined oesophagus (CLO): dilated distal oesophagus (DDO). Due to its macroscopic gastric appearance it cannot be discriminated from the stomach by endoscopy. Differentiation between DDE and proximal stomach requires the histopathology of measured multi-level biopsies obtained from the DDO and the proximal stomach. Cardaic, onxytocardiac mucosa and intestinal metaplasia (IM; Barrett's oesophagus) define CLO and thus the oesophageal location, while oxyntic mucosa (OM) of the proximal stomach verifies a gastric biopsy location. Endoscopically visible CLO and DDO define the morphological manifestation of reflux: the squamo-oxyntic gap (SOG). Biopsies obtained from the level of the diaphragmatic impressions allow differentiation between an enlarged hiatus with normal anatomic content (CLO; oesophagus) vs. hernia with abnormal content (OM; stomach). Non-dysplastic Barrett's oesophagus exists in 10 %-17 % of asymptomatic and in 20 %-100 % (with increasing CLO length) of reflux symptom-positive individuals (annual cancer risk: 0.2 %-0.7 %). These data justify biopsy of an endoscopically normal appearing squamocolumnar junction for the exclusion of Barrett's oesophagus and cancer risk. In the absence of contraindications, cancer risk-based therapy of dysplastic Barrett's oesophagus includes radiofrequency ablation (RFA) ± endoscopic resection. The perception of the cardia as reflux damaged DDO mirrors the concept of unfolding, as described by the interpretation of the didactic poem of Parmenides by Heidegger. Our data recommend to omit the term "cardia" and allocate morphology either to the oesophagus (CLO, DDO) or to the proximal stomach or indicate that allocation is impossible (i. e.. tumour-induced). Future studies will have to test the value of this novel concept for diagnosis, treatment of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and cancer prevention.