This study was conducted to investigate the clinical efficacy of BQJGHJ, a traditional Chinese medicine compound pharmaceutics, in the treatment of chickens artificially infected with Infectious bronchitis virus (IBV). One hundred and twenty chicks were divided into blank group, model group (IBV infection), positive drug group (IBV infection & Gan Dan oral liquid), and BQJGHJ high, middle and low dose groups (IBV infection & BQJGHJ), 20 chicks in each group. Except for the blank group, the other groups were modeled by infecting IBV-M41 strain, 4 days after modeling, the medicines were administrated through drinking water for 5 days. The clinical symptoms of each group were observed every day, the scores of clinical symptoms were recorded, the effective rate was counted, and the cure rate was used as the evaluation index. On the 3rd, 5th and 7th day post the first administration, the blood samples were collected from the wing vein and the serum were separated. The contents of IFN-γ, IL-6 and IL-10 in chicks serum were detected by ELISA. The results indicated that the cure rates of BQJGHJ high, middle and low dose groups were 75.0%, 80.0% and 65.0%, and the effective rates were 90.0%, 95.0% and 80.0%, respectively. The content of IL-10 in serum of chicks in model group decreased and the content of IL-6 increased, which was significantly different from that in blank group (P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01). On day 3 and 5 of administration, the contents of IFN-γ (P&lt;0.01 at day 5 in high dose group, P&gt;0.05 for others) and IL-10(P&lt;0.01 at day 5 in eath BQJGHJ gruop and positive drug group) in serum of chicks in BQJGHJ high, middle and low dose groups and positive drug groups increased, while the contents of IL-6 in serum of chicks decreased, which were significantly different from those in model group (P&lt;0.05). On the 2nd day after withdrawal, the contents of IFN-γ and IL-10 in serum of chicks in BQJGHJ high, middle and low dose groups and positive drug groups increased, while the contents of IL-6 in serum decreased, which were significantly different from those in model group (P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01); There was no significant difference in the contents of IFN-γ and IL-6, IL-10 in serum of chicks between each BQJGHJ group and the positive drug group (P&gt;0.05). BQJGHJ can increase the content of IFN-γ, IL-10 in serum of chicks with infectious bronchitis, reduce the content of IL-6 in serum of chicks with infectious bronchitis, so as to achieve the effect of treating infectious bronchitis in chicks.