BACKGROUND The usual approach in hernia surgery is to select the ideal repair method independent of the patient's characteristics. In the present study, we change the approach to ask which technique is best for the individual patient`s risk profile. For this, two criteria are important: does the patient need reconstruction of the abdominal wall? or does he or she need treatment of symptoms without being exposed to unnecessarily high perioperative risks? METHODS In a heuristic selection procedure, 486 consecutive patients were classified according to their characteristics as low-risk or high-risk for postoperative complications. Low-risk patients preferentially underwent open abdominal wall reconstruction with mesh (MFR + mesh), high-risk patients mainly a bridging-mesh procedure, either by laparoscopic (Lap.-IPOM) or open approach (Open-IPOM). Primary outcome was the incidence of postoperative complications. Secondary outcome was the recurrence-free interval. The propensity score was used for covariate adjustment analyzing recurrence rate as well as postoperative complications using Cox regression and logistic regression, respectively. RESULTS Comparison of all surgical procedures showed risk factors had no independent influence on occurrence of complications (p = 0.110). Hernial gap width was an independent factor for occurrence of complications (p = 0.002). Propensity score adjustment revealed Lap.-IPOM to have a significantly higher recurrence rate than MFR + mesh (HR 2.367, 95% CI 1.123-4.957, p = 0.024). Three or more risk factors were protective against recurrence (HR 0.454, 95% CI 0.221-0.924, p = 0.030). In the univariate Cox regression analysis for recurrence, age >50 years was a protective prognostic factor (HR 0.412, 95% CI 0.245-0.702, p = 0.002). CONCLUSIONS The classification criteria applied were internally validated. The heuristic algorithm ensured that patients at high-risk of complications did not have a higher perioperative complication rate than patients at low-risk.