INTRODUCTION Magnet-assisted surgery is a new platform within minimally invasive surgery. The Levita™ Magnetic Surgical System, the first magnetic surgical system to receive Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval, includes a deployable, magnetic grasper and an external magnet that is used to manipulate the grasper within the peritoneal cavity. This system is currently approved for patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy with a body mass index (BMI) between 21 and 34 kg/m2. Herein, we detail the first United States experience with the Levita™ Magnetic Surgical System during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. METHODS The Levita™ Magnetic Surgical System was used on consecutive patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy at our institution from June 2016 through November 2016. Only patients undergoing elective surgery and those with a body mass index (BMI) between 21 and 34 kg/m2 were included. Baseline patient characteristics, operative time, and perioperative details were collected. RESULTS A total of ten patients underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy with the Levita™ Magnetic Surgical System during the defined study period. The mean age at the time of surgery was 49.0 years and the average BMI of the cohort was 27.6 kg/m2. The average operative time was 64.4 min. There were no perioperative complications. Seven (70.0%) patients were discharged to home on the day of surgery, while the remaining three (30.0%) patients were discharged to home on postoperative day number one. Surgeons reported that the magnetic grasper was easy to use and provided adequate tissue retraction and exposure. CONCLUSIONS The Levita™ Magnetic Surgical System is safe and feasible to use in patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Routine use of this system may facilitate a reduction in the total number of laparoscopic trocars used, leading to less tissue trauma and improved cosmesis. Additional studies are needed to determine the applicability and utility of this system for other general surgery cases.