Introduction The coronavirus disease 2019(COVID-19) is caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2 and is declared as a global pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO). Various hematological parameters alteration has been documented in the Chinese literature in SARS-Cov-2 infection. However, there is a need for research to evaluate the pattern of the hematological parameters of COVID-19 patients in the Indian population. Aims & Objectives: The objective of the study is to see the Neutrophil-Lymphocyte Ratio (NLR), Platelet Lymphocyte Ratio (PLR), and other hematological parameters alteration of COVID-19 patients along with their clinical course in the Indian scenario. Methods: A single-center prospective study of 32 patients with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 admitted to Super Speciality Pediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute NOIDA, from March to April, were enrolled for the study. The demographic data, the clinical status of the patients during admission and follow up, baseline, and follow up hematological findings were recorded. Statistical analysis of the data was carried out, and relevant findings were presented. Results: Demographic characterization shows a mean age of 37.7 years, male (41.9%), female (58.1%)with the majority of patients are mildly symptomatic to asymptomatic(93%). The CBC values and NLR, PLR at baseline between the male and the female patients, are not showing any statistically significant difference as the 95% C.I. A statistically significant increment in the lab parameters is observed in follow-up visits. Conclusion: The majority of the patients are younger and have mild clinical presentation with female predominance. Pediatric cases have mild symptomology. Baseline CBC findings show mild neutrophilia, lymphopenia, eosinopenia, and normal to mild thrombocytopenia. An increase in CBC parameters, NLR was noted in follow up cases. Anemia was not noted in baseline CBC and in the follow-up group. A onetime PLR is not indicative of disease progression. Key words: Corona virus,COVID-19,CBC,NLR,PLR