An increase in population, rapid urbanization and industrialization has accelerated the rate of municipal solid waste generation. The current disposal of solid waste is a burgeoning issue and it's in immediate need to shift the existing disposal processes to a sustainable manner. Circular economy (CE) is a conceptual model which is been used for better use of resources and minimization of waste in a closed loop approach which could be appropriate for waste management. In this context, the present review illustrates the effective use of biodegradable and non-biodegradable fraction of solid waste in a closed loop integrated refinery platforms for the recovery of bioenergy resources and for the production of value added products. The biodegradable fraction of solid waste could be treated by advanced biological processes with the simultaneous production of bioenergy such as biohydrogen, biomethane, bioelectricity, etc., and other value added products like butanol, ethanol, methanol etc. The scheme illustrates the closed loop approach, the bioenergy generated from the biodegradable fraction of solid waste could be used for the operation of internal combustion engines and the energy could be further used for processing the waste. The non-biodegradable fraction of solid waste could be used for construction and pavement processes. Overall the study emphasizes the paradigm shift of solid waste management concepts from linear economy to a circular economy following the "Zero Waste" concept. The study also explains the circular economy policies practiced for solid waste management that stimulates the economy of the country and identify the pathways to maximize the local resources. In addition the review addresses the advanced information and communication technologies to unfold the issues and challenges faced in the solid waste management. The smart governance of managing waste using the "Internet of Things" (IoT) is one of the great precursors of technological development that could lead innovations in waste management.