BACKGROUND While laparoscopy is now the standard for cholecystectomy, recent papers have focused on single-incision approaches. Intraoperative cholangiography remains an integral part of laparoscopic cholecystectomy but has not yet been well described within the single-access literature. We discuss our method of single-incision laparoscopic cholecystectomy with routine intraoperative cholangiograms. METHODS A retrospective review of our surgical database was completed. One hundred twenty-three patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy were identified (83 standard laparoscopy, 40 single-incision laparoscopy). Patient demographics including age and body mass index (BMI), and indications for surgery, operative time, intra- and postoperative complications, and ability to complete cholangiography were analyzed. RESULTS All patients with standard laparoscopy had successful cholangiograms. Two patients did not undergo cholangiography based on a preoperative decision (pregnancy). In the 40 patients who underwent single-incision cholecystectomy, 38 cholangiograms were completed (95%). One patient with acute cholecystitis had a small cystic duct which could not be cannulated. The second had a cystic duct through which the cholangiocatheter could not be advanced. Comparative analysis of patient demographics showed a significant difference in patient age between the two groups, as well as a significantly greater number of patients undergoing single-incision cholecystectomy for symptomatic cholelithiasis as opposed to acute cholecystitis. DISCUSSION Completion of intraoperative cholangiography is an important aspect of cholecystectomy in order to identify choledocholithiasis and verify anatomy. With the advent of single-access laparoscopy, standard operative principles should not be compromised. Cholangiography may provide a safer approach to cholecystectomy when adopting a new technique. We present our technique of single-incision cholecystectomy and routine cholangiography with a 95% success rate. The ability to perform single-incision intraoperative cholangiograms will allow a safe, more minimally invasive approach to cholecystectomy with suspected choledocholithiasis and obviate the need to convert to standard multiport laparoscopy for the sole reason of completing cholangiograms.