BACKGROUND Confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) is a novel endoscopic adjunct that allows real-time in vivo histological examination of mucosal surfaces. By using intravenous or topical fluorescent agents, CLE highlights certain mucosal elements that facilitate an optical biopsy in real time. CLE technology has been used in different organ systems including the gastrointestinal tract. There has been numerous studies evaluating this technology in gastrointestinal endoscopy, our aim was to evaluate the safety, value, and efficacy of this technology in the gastrointestinal tract. METHODS The Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons (SAGES) Technology and Value Assessment Committee (TAVAC) performed a PubMed/Medline database search of clinical studies involving CLE in May of 2018. The literature search used combinations of the keywords: confocal laser endomicroscopy, pCLE, Cellvizio, in vivo microscopy, optical histology, advanced endoscopic imaging, and optical diagnosis. Bibliographies of key references were searched for relevant studies not covered by the PubMed search. Case reports and small case series were excluded. The manufacturer's website was also used to identify key references. The United States Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) Manufacturer And User facility and Device Experience (MAUDE) database was searched for reports regarding the device malfunction or injuries. RESULTS The technology offers an excellent safety profile with rare adverse events related to the use of fluorescent agents. It has been shown to increase the detection of dysplastic Barrett's esophagus, gastric intraepithelial neoplasia/early gastric cancer, and dysplasia associated with inflammatory bowel disease when compared to standard screening protocols. It also aids in the differentiation and classification of colorectal polyps, indeterminate biliary strictures, and pancreatic cystic lesions. CONCLUSIONS CLE has an excellent safety profile. CLE can increase the diagnostic accuracy in a number of gastrointestinal pathologies.