Background and purpose - The ongoing Coronavirus Disease-19 (COVID-19) pandemic has taken a toll on healthcare systems around the world. This has led to guidelines advising against elective procedures, which includes elective arthroplasty. Despite arthroplasty being an elective procedure, some arthroplasties are arguably essential, as pain or functional impairment maybe devastating for patients, especially during this difficult period. We describe our experience as the Division of Arthroplasty in the hospital at the epicenter of the COVID-19 pandemic in Singapore.Patients and methods - The number of COVID-19 cases reported both nationwide and at our institution from February 2020 to date were reviewed. We then collated the number of arthroplasties that we were able to cope with on a weekly basis and charted it against the number of new COVID-19 cases admitted to our institution and the prevalence of COVID-19 within the Singapore population.Results - During the COVID-19 pandemic period, a significant decrease in the volume of arthroplasties was seen. 47 arthroplasties were performed during the pandemic period from February to April, with a weekly average of 5 cases. This was a 74% reduction compared with our institutional baseline. The least number of surgeries were performed during early periods of the pandemic. This eventually rose to a maximum of 47% of our baseline numbers. Throughout this period, no cases of COVID-19 infection were reported amongst the orthopedic inpatients at our institution.Interpretation - During the early periods of the pandemic, careful planning was required to evaluate the pandemic situation and gauge our resources and manpower. Our study illustrates the number of arthroplasties that can potentially be done relative to the disease curve. This could serve as a guide to reinstating arthroplasty as the pandemic dies down. However, it is prudent to note that these situations are widely dynamic and frequent re-evaluation is required to secure patient and healthcare personnel safety, while ensuring appropriate care is delivered.