INTRODUCTION Seroma is a frequent complication of endoscopic totally extraperitoneal (TEP) mesh repair of direct inguinal hernia that may cause discomfort and anxiety. Its volume is proportional to the size of the preperitoneal dead space created after the reduction of the hernia. Attempts to reduce its incidence have included tacking the transversalis fascia (TF) to the pubic ramus or closed suction drainage of the preperitoneal space. Both of these techniques are not without problems. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficiency of a new alternate technique that must be safe and easily reproducible, using a widely available and inexpensive pre-tied suture loop (Endoloop(®) Ligature) for plication of the weakened TF. METHODS This is a prospective study of consecutive patients diagnosed with inguinal hernia during a 33-month period and eligible for endoscopic TEP repair. A single surgeon performed all operations. Each of the M2 or M3 direct defects, according to the European Hernia Society (EHS), were systematically closed prior to the introduction of the prosthetic mesh and as follows: grasping and inversion of the attenuated TF at its apex, using a laparoscopic forceps and plication of the TF by placing a tight Endoloop of Polydioxanone (PDS) at its base. All meshes were secured with fibrin sealant only. Patients were reviewed in the clinic 2 and 6 weeks after the operation. Further follow-up was scheduled if it was deemed necessary. The primary post-operative outcome parameter was seroma formation; secondary outcome parameters included groin pain, surgical complications, and recurrence. RESULTS Two hundred and fifty hernia repairs were prospectively recorded during this period. All procedures were carried out endoscopically. Seventy-nine patients with 94 direct inguinal hernias were selected in a sequential manner. There were 75 males and four females, with a median age of 57 years. Of those, 55 were combined with an indirect inguinal defect. In total, Endoloops of PDS were used to close the weakened TF in 76 cases (30 M3, 44 M2, and two M1). Only one patient (1.3%) complained of a residual seroma formation, which was still clinically present at 3 months post-operatively, but was not symptomatic. There were only two minor post-operative complications, which occurred in the same patient and were not related to the Endoloop technique. Finally, no patient complained of chronic groin pain and there was no hernia recurrence after a median follow-up of 18 months. CONCLUSIONS The primary closure of direct inguinal hernia defects with a pre-tied suture loop during endoscopic TEP repair is safe, efficient, and very reliable for the prevention of post-operative seroma formation, without increasing the risk of developing chronic groin pain or hernia recurrence. This technique should be the preferred method over stapling of the TF or the insertion of a closed suction drainage device in such a situation.