OBJECTIVES Offer some recommendations or guidelines during the evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic in terms of diagnosis, treatment and follow-upin the field of Reconstructive Urology. MATERIAL AND METHOD: The document is based on the evidence on SARS/Cov-2 and the authors' experience in managing COVID-19 in their institutions, including specialists from Andalusia, Madrid, Cantabria,the Valencian Community and Catalonia. A web and PubMed search was performed using "SARS-CoV-2", "COVID-19", "COVID-19 Urology", "COVID19 urology complications", "COVID-19 reconstructive surgery".A narrative review of the literature was carried out (5/17/2020) and after the nominal group technique modified due to the extraordinary restrictions, a first draft was made to unify criteria and reach a quick consensus. Finally, a definitive version was made, agreed by all the authors (5/22/2020). RESULTS: The authors defined the following surgical priorities for Urological Reconstructive Surgery: Emergency/Urgency (life-threatening or emergencies still in anormal situation), Elective Urgency/High priority (potentially dangerous pathology if postponed for more than 1month), Elective Surgery/Intermediate priority (pathology with little probability of being dangerous but it is recommended not to delay more than 6 months), Delayed surgery/Low priority (non-dangerous pathology if it is postponed for more than 6 months). According to this classification, the Working Group agreed on the distribution of the different surgical scenarios of Reconstructive Urology. In addition, consensus was reached on recommendations regarding the diagnosis and follow-up of pathology in the field of Reconstructive Urology. CONCLUSIONS: Tools should be implemented to facilitate the gathering of the medical visit and diagnostic tests. Redistribution of surgical procedures based on priority degrees is necessary during the pandemic and transition period. The use of telemedicine is essential forfollow-up, by computer, telephone or videoconference.