BACKGROUND In many centres, the laparoscopic total splenectomy is a well-established routine procedure. However, the crucial immunological role of the spleen in combating bacterial infections, in particular pneumonias, has led to a search for splenic-preserving techniques whenever possible. Yet, laparoscopic partial splenectomies are still rarely described possibly due to difficulties in controlling intra-operative parenchymal bleeding during splenic transection. METHODS Here, we present a case series of laparoscopic partial splenectomies using a new technique. The main splenic artery and vein were temporarily clamped using a detachable clip. Transection of the spleen was possible working with the LigaSure™ instrument. After transection, the margin was sealed with a collagen fleece. In one case of a haemangioma, the patient underwent a radiological coil embolisation of the feeding arteries of the splenic pole in question. This was done 4 weeks prior to surgery and included embolisation of the tumour. RESULTS Three patients (2 males, 1 female, mean age 58.3 years) have been successfully treated using a detachable clamp. The pre-surgical mean size of the spleen was 8.0 × 16.7 cm (range 6 × 14-11 × 22 cm). The removed specimens had a mean size of 4.2 × 5.5 cm (range 2.5 × 4.0-5.0 × 6.5 cm). The time of surgery averaged 144 min (range 110-187 min). Blood loss was minimal thereby avoiding the need for blood transfusions. The post-surgical course was uneventful; patients were discharged 5 days following surgery. Histopathology showed a benign splenic haemangioma, a benign splenic hamartoma and the presence of Hodgkin's disease stage III. CONCLUSIONS The technique of laparoscopic partial splenectomy and, in certain patients, pre-surgical partial splenic embolisation is safe and effective for patients with localised diseases of the spleen. This approach combines the benefits of the minimal surgical access with saving a significant amount of splenic tissue, thereby preserving the immune function of the spleen.