AIM To assess the effectiveness of the use of the antiviral drug enisamium iodide in the complex treatment of acute respiratory viral infections (ARVI) caused by various pathogens in routine clinical practice. MATERIALS AND METHODS А prospective randomized study included 134 patients who were treated in the epidemic season of influenza and ARVI in 20182019. All patients were examined for the presence of influenza A and B viruses, respiratory syncytial virus, human metapneumovirus, parainfluenza virus, coronaviruses, rhinoviruses, adenoviruses in nasopharyngeal swabs by PCR. Patients of the main group received enisamium iodide along with symptomatic therapy, the control group received only symptomatic therapy. The primary parameter of the effectiveness of therapy was evaluated on the scale of the general severity of the manifestations of ARVI (Total Symptom Score TSS) from the 2nd to the 4th day and by the secondary criteria of effectiveness: assessment of the duration of ARVI, the severity of fever, the proportion of patients with normal body temperature, the duration of the main clinical symptoms of acute respiratory viral infections, the proportion of patients in whom complications requiring antibiotics were noted, the dynamics of interferon status on the 6th day. To conduct a statistical analysis, depending on the efficiency parameter, the ANCOVA method with a fixed group factor and an initial score on the TSS severity scale was used as covariates, a criterion for comparing quantitative indicators in two independent groups. RESULTS According to the results of the analysis of the primary efficacy parameter, the median (interquartile range) of the average score on the scale of the general severity of ARVI manifestations in the main group was 4.33 (3.675.83), in the comparison group 6.00 (4.677.25; p0.001). The duration of systemic and local manifestations of acute respiratory viral infections was statistically significantly less in the main group (p=0.002 and p=0.019, respectively). Prescription of additional therapy was required in 2 (2.9%) patients of the main group (patients taking enisamium iodide), compared with 8 (11.9%) patients in the control group. Serum levels of interferon  and interferon  on the last day of treatment were statistically significantly higher in patients of the main group compared with the control group (p0.001). Treatment (excellent) was evaluated by 42 (62.7%) patients, while in the control group only 17 (25.8%) patients gave similar ratings. Both patients (p0.001) and doctors (p0.002) rated therapy tolerance better in the study group. CONCLUSION The results confirmed the safety and effectiveness of enisamium iodide as a treatment for ARVI and influenza. The antiviral, interferonogenic and anti-inflammatory properties of the drug are involved in the formation of an antiviral response and reduce the risk of complications, which makes it possible to reduce the number of symptomatic agents used.