BACKGROUND: With the rapid spread of novel coronavirus pneumonia (NCP) worldwide and the escalation of prevention and control efforts, the routine medical needs of patients have been restricted. The aims were to investigate medical needs of lung cancer patients and their mental health status during the epidemic periods, so as to provide rational recommendations for subsequent diagnosis and treatment. METHODS: The questionnaire was sent in the form of an electronic questionnaire at 7am on 4th, March, 2020, until 7am 6th, March, 2020, 368 questionnaires were recollected from 25 provinces (autonomous regions/municipalities) in 48 h. RESULTS: Of the 368 patients, 18 patients were excluded as they didn't receive anti-tumor treatment, and 350 patients were included in the final analysis. 229 cases were treated with oral targeted drugs, and 121 cases were treated with chemotherapy or immunotherapy. 41.3% of patients treated with intravenous chemotherapy or immunotherapy experienced treatment discontinuation, and the proportion of treatment discontinuation in chemotherapy or immunotherapy was higher than those treated with oral targeted drugs (21.0%). Whether oral targeted drugs or intravenous chemotherapy or immunotherapy, more than 60% of patients experienced delays in imaging examinations. Nearly one third of patients developed new symptoms or exacerbation of existing symptoms. 26.6%-28.9% of patients have changed their treatment plans through online consultation. During novel coronavirus pneumonia, 40%-75% of lung cancer patients have mental health problems, and more than 95% of patients support government's prevention and control measures. CONCLUSIONS: During the emergence of NCP, the medical needs of patients with lung cancer have not been enough, especially those who discontinued chemotherapy or immunotherapy. When medical institution resumes work, priority should be given to them. At the same time, mental health problems of patients should be valued and resolved timely.