According to WHO, more than one million individuals are infected with COVID-19, and around 20000 people have died because of this infectious disease around the world. In addition, COVID-19 epidemic poses serious public health threat to the world where people with little or no pre-existing human immunity can be more vulnerable to the effects of the effects of the coronavirus. Thus, developing surveillance systems for predicting COVID-19 pandemic in an early stage saves millions of lives. In this study, the deep learning algorithm and Holt-trend model is proposed to predict coronavirus. The Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM ) algorithm and Holt-trend were applied to predict confirmed numbers and death cases. The real time data have been collected from the World Health Organization (WHO) . In the proposed research, we have considered three countries to test the proposed model namely Saudi Arabia, Spain and Italy. The results suggest that the LSTM models showed better performance in predicting the cases of coronavirus patients. Standard measure performance MSE, RMSE, Mean error and correlation are employed to estimate the results of the proposed models. The empirical results of the LSTM by using correlation metric are 99.94%, 99.94% and 99.91 to predict number of confirmed cases on COVID-19 in three countries. Regarding the prediction results of LSTM model to predict the number of death on COVID-19 are 99.86%, 98.876% and 99.16 with respect to the Saudi Arabia, Italy and Spain respectively. Similarly the experimented results of Holt-Trend to predict the number of confirmed cases on COVID-19 by using correlation metrics are 99.06%, 99.96% and 99.94, whereas the results of Holt-Trend to predict the number of death cases are 99.80%, 99.96 and 99.94 with respect to the Saudi Arabia, Italy and Spain respectively. The empirical results indicate the efficient performance of the presented model in predicting the number of confirmed and death cases of COVID-19 in these countries. Such findings provide better insights about the future of COVID-19 in general. The results were obtained by applying the time series models which needs to be considered for the sake of saving the lives of many people.