BACKGROUND: The novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, has been responsible for the devastation of hundreds of thousands of lives directly and has caused disruptions globally. Vulnerable populations, specifically those suffering from serious mental illness and homelessness, are at higher risk of contracting COVID-19 infection resulting in medical complications and psychiatric destabilization. In addition, mental health has become increasingly relevant throughout the country given the psychological distress people have been facing due to the spread of COVID-19 and the toll of a more restricted way of living. Although the healthcare industry has quickly integrated novel ways of treating patients with mental illness with technological advances, these technologies are not applicable to different populations equally. There is a clear disparity that is represented within the public county health systems, which leads to a widening gap between those who receive adequate treatment for mental illness and those who do not. AIMS: The aims of this paper were to provide a commentary on the benefits of technology-based psychiatric and psychological interventions based off experience in a public health system and based off a relevant, thorough literature review. In addition, we aim to highlight the importance of accessibility of these interventions for vulnerable populations and provide recommendations for integrating these services expeditiously. METHODS: Literature review was conducted using MEDLINE, PubMed and Google Scholar. CONCLUSIONS: Based off data collected from experience in a public health system and literature review, we conclude that although the COVID-19 pandemic has initiated significant innovation to integrate technology for psychiatric care, this innovation is not equally accessible for vulnerable populations suffering from mental health disorders. Within a public county health system, there are barriers with providing mental healthcare to vulnerable populations. These barriers, which are applicable throughout the United States, serve as a rationale for the need of innovative solutions for the integration of these services in not only emergency situations such as the COVID-19 pandemic, but also in daily non-emergent operations to sufficiently address the needs for those needing mental healthcare.