INTRODUCTION Anastomotic bleeding after a circular-stapled anastomosis in laparoscopic colon resections is a rare but extremely aggravating complication. An intraoperative endoscopic assessment of the anastomosis allows immediate evaluation regarding bleeding and possible leakage. The aim of the study was to evaluate the impact of routine intraoperative endoscopy on postoperative complications. METHODS Since May 1999, data of all laparoscopic colon resections were collected in a prospective database. Since July 2007, we assessed every circular-stapled anastomosis with a flexible endoscope for bleeding, integrity of mucosa, and leakage. The patients with (+) and without (-) routine endoscopic assessment were compared regarding postoperative complications. RESULTS Group(-) consisted of 253 patients [133 male, 120 female; mean age, 60 years (25 to 86 y)] and group(+) consisted of 85 patients [44 male, 41 female; mean age, 62 years (22 to 87 y), P=not significant] In group(-), postoperative anastomotic bleeding was diagnosed in 11 patients (4.3%) and 7 (2.8%) of these patients required endoscopic assessment and clipping. In group(+), endoscopy showed anastomotic bleeding in 5 patients (5.9%) at the time of surgery, which required clipping. Anastomotic leak was observed in 2 patients (2.4%): in one patient the circular staple line was oversewn and in the other patient anastomosis was redone. Two (2.4%) patients in group(+) had postoperative anastomotic bleeding requiring reendoscopy and clipping. The postoperative leakage rate was not significantly different in both the groups [(-)1.6%, (+)1.2%, P= not significant]. CONCLUSIONS Intraoperative endoscopic assessment of circular-stapled anastomosis can detect early anastomotic bleeding and leakage. Although the postoperative rate of bleeding and leakage was not significantly reduced in our study, we still recommend endoscopic assessment of the circular-stapled anastomosis as a routine procedure in colorectal surgery, as the benefits outweigh the risks.