Objectives- Ongoing pandemic due to COVID-19 has spread across countries, surprisingly with variable clinical characteristics and outcomes. This study was aimed at describing clinical characteristics and outcomes of admitted patients with mild COVID-19 illness in the initial phase of pandemic in India. Design - Retrospective (observational ) study. Setting - COVID facilities under AIIMS, New Delhi, where, isolation facilities were designed to manage patients with mild illness and dedicated COVID ICUs was created to cater patients with moderate to severe illness. Participants - Patients aged 18 years or more, with confirmed illness were eligible for enrolment. Patients who were either asymptomatic or mildly ill at presentation were included. Patients with moderate to severe illness at admission, or incomplete clinical symptomatology records were excluded. Methods - Data regarding demographic profile, comorbidities, clinical features, hospital course, treatment, details of results of RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2 done at baseline and at day 14, chest radiographs (wherever available) as well as laboratory parameters was obtained retrospectively from the hospital records. Main outcome measures - Final outcome was noted in terms of course of the disease, patients discharged, still admitted (at time of conclusion of study) or death. Results -Out of 231 cases included, majority were males(78.3%) with a mean age of 39.8 years. Comorbidities were present in 21.2% of patients, diabetes mellitus and hypertension being most common. The most common symptoms were dry cough(81, 35%), fever(64, 27.7%), sore throat(36, 15.6%), and dyspnoea(24, 10.4%); asymptomatic infection was noted in 108(46.8%) patients. Presence of comorbidities was an independent predictor of symptomatic disease (OR-2.66; 95% CI 1.8 to 6.53, p= 0.03). None of the patients progressed to moderate to severe COVID-19. There were no deaths in this cohort. Conclusions - Patients with mild disease at presentation had a stable disease course and therefore such cases can be managed outside hospital setting. A large proportion of patients remained asymptomatic throughout the course of infection and those with comorbidities are more likely to be symptomatic. Trial registration - Not applicable