BACKGROUND The Notch signaling pathway plays an important role in regulating human immune function, but the relationship between allergic rhinitis (AR) and Notch signaling remains unclear. OBJECTIVE To investigate the role of Notch signaling in the pathogenesis of AR and its regulation on Foxp3-Treg cells. METHOD The sera of 100 patients with AR and 50 controls were collected to assess the differences in Notch1, Jagged1, and DLL1 (Delta-like 1) expression. Experimental mice were divided into normal control, AR, Notch inhibitor, and dexamethasone groups. Allergic symptoms, total IgE levels, and the proportion of Treg cells in the peripheral blood were detected. Notch1, Jagged1, NICD (Notch intracellular domain, also known as ICN), and Foxp3 expression and Th1/Th2/Th17-related cytokines in the spleen were detected and compared between each group of mice. RESULTS Compared with the control group, the expression of Notch1 and Jagged1 in patients with AR was significantly elevated (p < 0.05). The expression of Notch1 and Jagged1 in patients with severe AR was higher than that observed in the mild to moderate AR patients and positively correlated with the levels of allergen sIgE (p < 0.05). The animal experiments revealed that compared with the normal control group, the expression of Notch1, Jagged1, and NICD in the AR group was increased, Foxp3 expression was decreased, and the proportion of Treg cells was decreased (p < 0.05). Compared with the AR group, allergic symptoms and total serum IgE levels and the expression of Notch1, Jagged1, and NICD were significantly decreased in the Notch inhibited group, whereas the expression of Foxp3 and the proportion of Treg cells were increased significantly (p < 0.05). The Th2-type immune responses were also enhanced and Th1-type immune responses decreased in the AR group, but the Th1/Th2 imbalance was reversed in the Notch inhibited group. CONCLUSION Notch signaling downregulates Foxp3 expression and inhibits the differentiation of Treg cells to promote the development of AR. Blocking Notch signaling may be a potential treatment for AR.