PURPOSE Chronic post-operative inguinal pain (CPIP) is defined as pain lasting more than 3 months and the incidence is less than 4% after laparoscopic hernia repair. CPIP can have several causes. In this study, we aimed to show that 3D-iron loaded mesh preparations are useful in radiological evaluation of post-operative complications, especially patients with chronic pain and the mesh status of operated inguinal hernia cases. METHODS A total of 450 cases who had been operated for inguinal hernia with 3D-iron loaded mesh and who had ongoing pain at the post-operative period were included in this study. MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) was performed at the post-operative 90th day of the seven symptomatic (groin pain, limitation of movement) cases which were operated using a 3D-iron loaded mesh, 10 × 15 cm in size, (DynaMeshEndolap visible with 25% MRI-visible filaments, FEG TextiltechnikmbH, Aachen, Germany) for inguinal hernia repair to evaluate mesh status, localization, and local complications. Gradient echo sequences in the sagittal, axial, and coronal sections on MRI were discussed by two radiologists. Mesh localizations, their relationship with surrounding structures and their complications related with mesh were evaluated by two radiologists (D.Y, D.E.T.Ş). RESULTS No significant radiological findings related to defined anatomical structures were found in the MRI images of the study group. The dimensions measured on the sagittal, axial and coronal images were correlated with original mesh sizes and no significant shrinkage was detected. CONCLUSION Mesh position and deformation as shrinkage can be the mesh-related cause of pain. The incidence of CPIP in our patients is less than 2%. 3D-iron loaded meshes were monitored with MRI in CPIP patients and there was no mesh-related changes found in our study. The use of MRI-visible meshes will most likely help us to monitor mesh preparations and show potential time-dependent changes in mesh characteristics and consequent complications. In case of doubtful clinical postoperative hernia recurrence or chronic groin pain, mesh position can be identified by MRI and unnecessary surgical intervention can be avoided.