Background There is limited evidence regarding the patient-related factors that influence treatment outcomes after an acute Achilles tendon rupture. Purpose/Hypothesis The purpose of this study was to determine the predictors of functional and patient-reported outcomes 1 year after an acute Achilles tendon rupture using a multicenter cohort and to determine patient characteristics for reporting within the top and bottom 10% of the Achilles tendon Total Rupture Score (ATRS) and heel-rise height outcomes. The hypothesis was that older age, greater body mass index (BMI), and female sex would lead to inferior outcomes. Study Design Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. Methods Patients were selected by combining 5 randomized controlled trials from 2 different centers in Sweden. Functional outcomes were assessed using validated heel-rise tests (height, number of repetitions, total work, and concentric power) for muscular endurance and strength, and the relationship between injured and uninjured legs was calculated as the limb symmetry index (LSI). Patient-reported outcomes were measured using the ATRS. All outcomes were collected at the 1-year follow-up. Independent predictors included were patient sex, smoking, BMI, age, and surgical versus nonsurgical treatment. Results Of the 391 included patients, 307 (79%) were treated surgically. The LSI of heel-rise height at the 1-year follow-up decreased by approximately 4% for every 10-year increment in age (beta, -3.94 [95% CI, -6.19 to -1.69]; P = .0006). In addition, every 10-year increment in age resulted in a 1.79-fold increase in the odds of being in the lowest 10% of the LSI of heel-rise height. Moreover, a nonsignificant superior LSI of heel-rise height was found in patients treated surgically compared with nonsurgical treatment (beta, -4.49 [95% CI, -9.14 to 0.16]; P = .058). No significant predictor was related to the ATRS. Smoking, patient sex, and BMI did not significantly affect the 1-year results for the LSI of the heel-rise tests. Conclusion Older age at the time of injury negatively affected heel-rise height 1 year after an Achilles tendon rupture. Irrespective of age, a nonsignificant relationship toward the superior recovery of heel-rise height was seen in patients treated surgically. None of the factors studied affected patient-reported outcomes.