Feline infectious peritonitis (FIP), caused by a genetic mutant of feline enteric coronavirus known as FIPV, is a highly fatal disease of cats with no currently available vaccine or FDA-approved cure. Dissemination of FIPV in affected cats results in a range of clinical signs including cavitary effusions, anorexia, fever and lesions of pyogranulomatous vasculitis and peri-vasculitis with or without central nervous system and/or ocular involvement. There is a critical need for effective and approved antiviral therapies against coronaviruses including FIPV and zoonotic coronaviruses such as SARS-CoV-2, the cause of COVID-19. With regards to SARS-CoV-2, preliminary evidence suggests that there may be potential clinical and pathological overlap with feline coronaviral disease including enteric and neurological involvement in some cases. We have screened 89 putative antiviral compounds and have identified 25 compounds with antiviral activity against FIPV, representing a variety of drug classes and mechanisms of antiviral action. Based upon successful combination treatment strategies for human patients with HIV or hepatitis C virus infections, we have identified combinations of drugs targeting different steps of the FIPV life cycle resulting in synergistic antiviral effect. Translationally, we suggest that a combined anticoronaviral therapy (cACT) with multiple mechanisms of action and penetration of all potential anatomic sites of viral infection should be applied towards other challenging to treat coronaviruses, like SARS-CoV-2. Author summary We have screened 89 compounds in vitro for antiviral activity against FIPV. The putative antiviral activity of these compounds was either purported to be a direct effect on viral proteins involved in viral replication or an indirect inhibitory effect on normal cellular pathways usurped by FIPV to aid viral replication. Twenty-five of these compounds were found to have significant antiviral activity. Certain combinations of these compounds were determined to be superior to monotherapy alone.