OBJECTIVE It has not yet been clarified whether it is possible to decrease the percentage of recurrences after radiofrequency (RF) ablation by way of increasing the number of RF ablation cycles. The aim of this study was to assess the morphologic changes in excised vein fragments after different durations of RF ablation exposure. METHODS In the first part of the study, we performed a morphologic analysis of eight cases of great saphenous vein (GSV) recanalization 6 months after RF ablation. The second part was performed on a suprafascial segment of the GSV with a length of >22 cm and a minimum diameter of 5 mm in 10 patients, who had given their consent to intraoperative excision of suprafascial GSV segments after RF ablation treatment through four 1-cm-long diametrical cuts. Prior ultrasound analysis had shown an average 6.9-mm diameter of the suprafascial segments. The segment was divided into three 7-cm-long subsegments and one control segment. The first, second, and third segments were treated with three, two, and one RF ablation cycles (ClosureFast; Covidien, Mansfield, Mass), respectively; the control segment was not exposed to RF ablation at all. Morphologic study of 160 sections of the vein (five sections of each segment and 10 control specimens) was carried out. The specimens were dyed with hematoxylin and orcein. The ensuing analysis was performed by an experienced expert with the blind study method (the specimens were numbered without any hint as to the quantity of RF ablation cycles performed on them). The intergroup comparison of the depth of venous wall damage was based on comparison of the coefficient of alteration, which is calculated as the relation of damage depth to thickness of the vein. RESULTS After one RF ablation cycle, the depth of blurring of the structural elements only on some portions reached the middle of the muscle layer of the wall (coefficient of alteration, α = 26%). After two cycles, blurring of the structural elements on some portions extended to the adventitia (α = 53%). After three cycles, uniform blurring of the structural elements of all layers of the venous wall up to the adventitia was seen (α = 92%). The statistically significant difference in the alteration coefficient, depending on the number of cycles of RF ablation (P < .005), was established. CONCLUSIONS The number of RF ablation cycles has an impact on the depth of vein wall damage. One and two cycles do not cause damage to all layers of the vein wall. Three cycles cause damage to all vein wall layers.