OBJECTIVE To develop a large database on clinical presentation, treatment and prognosis of all clinical diagnosed severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) cases in Beijing during the 2003 "crisis", in order to conduct further clinical studies. METHODS The database was designed by specialists, under the organization of the Beijing Commanding Center for SARS Treatment and Cure, including 686 data items in six sub-databases: primary medical-care seeking, vital signs, common symptoms and signs, treatment, laboratory and auxiliary test, and cost. All hospitals having received SARS inpatients were involved in the project. Clinical data was transferred and coded by trained doctors and data entry was carried out by trained nurses, according to a uniformed protocol. A series of procedures had been taken before the database was finally established which included programmed logic checking, digit-by-digit check on 5% random sample, data linkage for transferred cases, coding of characterized information, database structure standardization, case reviewe by computer program according to SARS Clinical Diagnosis Criteria issued by the Ministry of Health, and exclusion of unqualified patients. RESULTS The database involved 2148 probable SARS cases in accordant with the clinical diagnosis criteria, including 1291 with complete records. All cases and record-complete cases showed an almost identical distribution in sex, age, occupation, residence areas and time of onset. The completion rate of data was not significantly different between the two groups except for some items on primary medical-care seeking. Specifically, the data completion rate was 73% - 100% in primary medical-care seeking, 90% in common symptoms and signs, 100% for treatment, 98% for temperature, 90% for pulse, 100% for outcomes and 98% for costs in hospital. CONCLUSION The number of cases collected in the Beijing Clinical Database of SARS Patients was fairly complete. Cases with complete records showed that they could serve as excellent representatives of all cases. The completeness of data was quite satisfactory with primary clinical items which allowed for further clinical studies.