AIM Study of etiological structure of ARVI and evaluation of acute respiratory virus infection morbidity in 2010 - 2011 epidemic season taking into account the data of laboratory diagnostics by method of polymerase chain reaction with hybridization-fluorescent detection. MATERIALS AND METHODS By using reagent kits produced by Central Research Institute of Epidemiology for the detection of primary causative agents of influenza and ARVI 129 children and 94 adult patients monitored in an outpatient setting as well as 103 children hospitalized due to ARI were examined. RESULTS Etiological structure of ARVI was studied; proportion of influenza and other actual causative agents of ARVI in monthly dynamics were established. During epidemic rise of influenza (January-March 2011) the proportion of influenza A viruses was 24% (peak in January--31%), the proportion of influenza B viruses--5%, rhinoviruses--9%, metapneumovirus was detected in 6% of cases, parainfluenza viruses (1 - 4 type) and adenovirses--4% each, coronaviruses--in 3%, respiratory syncytial virus--in 2%, bocavirus--in 1% of the studied samples. In influenza structure A/H1N1pdm2009 virus, its proportion was 70%, influenza virus B (26.9%), influenza virus A/H3N2 (2.6%) predominated. Indexes for monthly morbidity caused by each of the ARVI causative agents were calculated. CONCLUSION The proposed approach allowed to evaluate ARVI morbidity taking into account laboratory-confirmed etiological factors. A 5 time increase in ARI morbidity in adults in February 2011 was shown to be mostly due to an increase in influenza A morbidity as well as involvement of influenza B virus, metapneumoviruses, coronaviruses, parainfluenza viruses and rhinoviruses into the epidemic process. Increase of morbidity of children by 1.4 times was also seen during activization of influenza viruses and metapneumovirus. The analysis of monitoring results allowed to prognose increase of respiratory-syncytial viral infection epidemic activity from September 2011 to February 2012.