In December 2019, an atypical pneumonia invaded the city of Wuhan, China, and the causative agent of this disease turned out to be a new coronavirus. In January 2020, the World Health Organization named the new coronavirus 2019-nCoV and subsequently it is referred to as SARS-CoV2 and the related disease as CoViD-19 (Lai et al., 2020). Very quickly, the epidemic led to a pandemic and it is now a worldwide emergency requiring the creation of new antiviral therapies and a related vaccine. The purpose of this article is to review and investigate further the molecular mechanism by which the SARS-CoV2 virus infection proceeds via the formation of a hetero-trimer between its protein S, the ACE2 receptor and the B0AT1 protein, which is the "entry receptor" for the infection process involving membrane fusion (Li et al., 2003). A reverse engineering process uses the formalism of the Hill function to represent the functions related to the dynamics of the biochemical interactions of the viral infection process. Then, using a logical evaluation of viral density that measures the rate at which the cells are hijacked by the virus (and they provide a place for the virus to replicate) and considering the "time delay" given by the interaction between cell and virus, the expected duration of the incubation period is predicted. The conclusion is that the density of the virus varies from the "exposure time" to the "interaction time" (virus-cells). This model can be used both to evaluate the infectious condition and to analyze the incubation period. BACKGROUND: The ongoing threat of the new coronavirus SARS-CoV2 pandemic is alarming and strategies for combating infection are highly desired. This RNA virus belongs to the ß-coronavirus genus and is similar in some features to SARS-CoV. Currently, no vaccine or approved medical treatment is available. The complex dynamics of the rapid spread of this virus can be demonstrated with the aid of a computational framework. METHODS: A mathematical model based on the principles of cell-virus interaction is developed in this manuscript. The amino acid sequence of S proein and its interaction with the ACE-2 protein is mimicked with the aid of Hill function. The mathematical model with delay is solved with the aid of numerical solvers and the parametric values are obtained with the help of MCMC algorithm. RESULTS: A delay differential equation model is developed to demonstrate the dynamics of target cells, infected cells and the SARS-CoV2. The important parameters and coefficients are demonstrated with the aid of numerical computations. The resulting thresholds and forecasting may prove to be useful tools for future experimental studies and control strategies. CONCLUSIONS: From the analysis, I is concluded that control strategy via delay is a promising technique and the role of Hill function formalism in control strategies can be better interpreted in an inexpensive manner with the aid of a theoretical framework.