BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE An ability to predict early reperfusion with IV tPA in patients with acute ischemic stroke and intracranial clots can help clinicians decide if additional intra-arterial therapy is needed or not. We explored the association between novel clot characteristics on baseline CTA and early reperfusion with IV tPA in patients with acute ischemic stroke by using classification and regression tree analysis. MATERIALS AND METHODS Data are from patients with acute ischemic stroke and proximal anterior circulation occlusions from the Calgary CTA data base (2003-2012) and the Keimyung Stroke Registry (2005-2009). Patients receiving IV tPA followed by intra-arterial therapy were included. Clot location, length, residual flow within the clot, ratio of contrast Hounsfield units pre- and postclot, and the M1 segment origin to the proximal clot interface distance were assessed on baseline CTA. Early reperfusion (TICI 2a and above) with IV tPA was assessed on the first angiogram. RESULTS Two hundred twenty-eight patients (50.4% men; median age, 69 years; median baseline NIHSS score, 17) fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Median symptom onset to IV tPA time was 120 minutes (interquartile range = 70 minutes); median IV tPA to first angiography time was 70.5 minutes (interquartile range = 62 minutes). Patients with residual flow within the clot were 5 times more likely to reperfuse than those without it. Patients with residual flow and a shorter clot length (≤15 mm) were most likely to reperfuse (70.6%). Patients with clots in the M1 MCA without residual flow reperfused more if clots were distal and had a clot interface ratio in Hounsfield units of <2 (36.8%). Patients with proximal M1 clots without residual flow reperfused 8% of the time. Carotid-T/-L occlusions rarely reperfused (1.7%). Interrater reliability for these clot characteristics was good. CONCLUSIONS Our study shows that clot characteristics on CTA help physicians estimate a range of early reperfusion rates with IV tPA.