BACKGROUND Magnetic resonance guided focused ultrasound was suggested for the induction of deep localized hyperthermia adjuvant to radiation- or chemotherapy. In this study we are aiming to validate an experimental model for the induction of uniform temperature elevation in osteolytic bone tumours, using the natural acoustic window provided by the cortical breakthrough. MATERIALS AND METHODS Experiments were conducted on ex vivo lamb shank by mimicking osteolytic bone tumours. The cortical breakthrough was exploited to induce hyperthermia inside the medullar cavity by delivering acoustic energy from a phased array HIFU transducer. MR thermometry data was acquired intra-operatory using the proton resonance frequency shift (PRFS) method. Active temperature control was achieved via a closed-loop predictive controller set at 6 °C above the baseline. Several beam geometries with respect to the cortical breakthrough were investigated. Numerical simulations were used to further explain the observed phenomena. Thermal safety of bone heating was assessed by cross-correlating MR thermometry data with the measurements from a fluoroptic temperature sensor inserted in the cortical bone. RESULTS Numerical simulations and MR thermometry confirmed the feasibility of spatio-temporal uniform hyperthermia (± 0.5 °C) inside the medullar cavity using a fixed focal point sonication. This result was obtained by the combination of several factors: an optimal positioning of the focal spot in the plane of the cortical breakthrough, the direct absorption of the HIFU beam at the focal spot, the "acoustic oven effect" yielded by the beam interaction with the bone, and a predictive temperature controller. The fluoroptical sensor data revealed no heating risks for the bone and adjacent tissues and were in good agreement with the PRFS thermometry from measurable voxels adjacent to the periosteum. CONCLUSION To our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating the feasibility of MR-guided focused ultrasound hyperthermia inside the medullar cavity of bones affected by osteolytic tumours. Our results are considered a promising step for combining adjuvant mild hyperthermia to external beam radiation therapy for sustained pain relief in patients with symptomatic bone metastases.