The bases of our current knowledge on the physiology of the hepatic portal system are largely owed to the work of three pioneering vascular researchers from the sixteenth and the seventeenth centuries: A. Vesalius, W. Harvey, and F. Glisson. Vesalius is referred to as the founder of modern human anatomy, and in his influential book, De humani corporis fabrica libri septem, he elaborated the first anatomical atlas of the hepatic portal venous system (Vesalius 2013). Sir William Harvey laid the foundations of modern cardiovascular research with his Exercitatio Anatomica de Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in Animalibus (Harvey 1931) in which he established the nature of blood circulation. Finally, F. Glisson characterized the gastrointestinal-hepatic vascular system (Child 1955). These physiological descriptions were later complemented with clinical observations. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, Morgagni, Puckelt, Cruveilhier, and Osler were the first to make the connection between common hepatic complications – ascites, splenomegaly, and gastrointestinal bleeding – and obstruction of the portal system (Sandblom 1993). These were the foundations that allowed Gilbert, Villaret, and Thompson to establish an early definition of portal hypertension at the beginning of the twentieth century. In this period, Thompson performed the first direct measurement of portal pressure by laparotomy in some patients (Gilbert and Villaret 1906; Thompson et al. 1937). Considering all these milestones, and paraphrasing Sir Isaac Newton, if hepatologists have seen further, it is by standing on the shoulders of giants. Nowadays, our understanding of the pathogenesis of portal hypertension has largely improved thanks to the progress in preclinical and clinical research. However, this field is ever-changing and hepatologists are continually identifying novel pathological mechanisms and developing new therapeutic strategies for this clinical condition. Hence, the aim of this chapter is to summarize the current knowledge about this clinical condition.