Hypercapnia in combination with hypoxemia is usually present in severe respiratory disease in the intensive care unit (ICU) and can lead to more severe cognitive dysfunction. Increasing evidence has indicated that the compromised blood–brain barrier (BBB) in the hippocampus in hypoxemia conditions can result in cognitive dysfunction. However, the role and underlying mechanism of hypercapnia in the BBB disruption remains poorly known. A rat model of hypercapnia was first established in this study by intubation and mechanical ventilation with a small-animal ventilator. After this, the cognitive function of the experimental rats was assessed by the Morris water maze test. The BBB permeability was evaluated by the Evans Blue (EB) test and brain water content (BWC). Western blot analysis was carried out to detect the protein expressions of total and nuclear hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), matrixmetalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and Aquaporins-4 (AQP-4) in the hippocampus tissue. Double immunofluorescence further verified the protein expression of different biomarkers was localized in the astrocytes of the hippocampus. Hypercapnia alone did not disrupt the BBB, but it could further enhance the BBB permeability in hypoxemia. Concomitantly, up-regulation of nuclear HIF-1α, AQP-4, MMP-9 protein expression along with increased degradation of the occludin and claudin-5 proteins was found in the hypercapnia rat model, while the total HIF-1α remained unchanged. Interestingly, these changes were independent of the acidosis induced by hypercapnia. Of note, after premedication of 2-Methoxyestradiol (2ME2, an inhibitor of HIF-1α nuclear translocation), the disrupted BBB could be restored resulting in improvement of the cognitive impairment. Meanwhile, accumulation of nuclear HIF-1α, protein expression of AQP-4 and MMP-9 and protein degradation of the occludin and claudin-5 were decreased. Thus, our study demonstrated that hypercapnia can further disrupt the BBB through promoting HIF-1α nuclear translocation and up-regulation of AQP-4 and MMP-9 in hypoxemia. It is therefore suggested that the cascade of hypercapnia-induced nuclear HIF-1α protein translocation in hypoxia-activated astrocytes may be a potential target for ameliorating cognitive impairment. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s11064-020-03038-7) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.