BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE Combined transarterial balloon-assisted endovascular embolization with double-lumen balloon microcatheters and concomitant transvenous balloon protection was described as a promising treatment technique for dural arteriovenous fistulae of the transverse and sigmoid sinus. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the technical efficacy and safety of this combined treatment technique. MATERIALS AND METHODS Nine consecutive patients presenting with dural arteriovenous fistulas of the transverse and sigmoid sinuses underwent combined transarterial and transvenous balloon-assisted endovascular embolization. Prospectively collected data were reviewed to assess the technical success rate, complication rate, and clinical outcome. RESULTS Six patients presented with clinically symptomatic Borden type I, and 3 patients, with Borden type II dural arteriovenous fistulas of the transverse and sigmoid sinuses (3 men, 6 women; mean age, 50.4 years). Transarterial embolization was performed with a double-lumen balloon with Onyx and concomitant transvenous sinus protection with a dedicated venous remodeling balloon. Complete angiographic occlusion at the latest follow-up (mean, 4.8 months) was achieved in 6 patients, and near-complete occlusion, in 2 patients. Clinical cure or remission of symptoms was obtained in 6 and 2 patients, respectively. One patient with a residual fistula underwent further treatment in which the dural arteriovenous fistula was cured by sinus occlusion. Complete occlusion of the dural arteriovenous fistula was visible on the follow-up angiography after final treatment in 8 patients. One patient refused follow-up angiography but was free of symptoms. There were no immediate or delayed postinterventional complications. CONCLUSIONS Transarterial balloon-assisted embolization of dural arteriovenous fistulas of the transverse and sigmoid sinuses with combined transvenous balloon protection is safe and offers a high rate of complete dural arteriovenous fistula occlusion and remission of clinical symptoms.