Introduction Changes in medical education and health care delivery have limited the ability of fourth-year medical students to perform the role of an intern prior to graduating from medical school. To address this issue, many schools have instituted residency preparation courses (sometimes referred to as boot camps) particularly for students entering surgical fields. Courses for students entering nonprocedural fields are less common and most assess increases in self-reported confidence without providing objective evidence of a gain in knowledge or skills improvement. Materials and Methods We used a Plan, Do, Study, Act (PDSA) model to develop and pilot cycle 1 of a nonprocedural internship preparation elective in 2019. Feedback was used to refine the course and map sessions to core competencies outlined by the Accreditation Council of Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) for PDSA cycle 2. The curriculum was adapted for remote synchronous delivery due to the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020 using a combination of didactic lectures containing embedded polls and case-based role play responses using a chat box. Students completed anonymous surveys assessing self-perceived levels of confidence, as well as an objective comprehensive assessment after course completion. Results A total of 89 students participated in the course. Pre-session confidence was lowest for transfusion medicine, handling pages from nursing while on call, and knowledge of the role of a chief resident. A statistically significant increase in median scores for self-reported knowledge or confidence was seen in all sessions. The percentage of students reporting that they were either confident or extremely confident also increased significantly after each session (p<0.001 for all). All sessions analyzed were rated as useful or extremely useful by more than half of the students, and 94% of the students scored 70% or higher on the comprehensive course assessment. Conclusions An online virtual synchronous boot camp increased students’ confidence in handling common topics encountered during residency and demonstrated an appropriate gain in knowledge using a comprehensive assessment. We were able to adapt our curriculum to a remote model and will likely keep several sessions in an online format in the future.