Influenza A and B viruses are orthomyxoviruses with three important envelope glycoproteins: hemagglutinin (HA), neuraminidase (NA), and matrix proteins. Influenza viruses have developed ways to evade the body's immune response using an antigenic variation known as antigenic shift (replacement of HA and NA antigens with novel subtypes from noninfluenza viruses) and drift (mutations within antibody-binding sites in HA and or NA). Because of new influenza viruses constantly emerging from antigenic shift and drift, new influenza vaccines are required each year. Human-to-human transmission of influenza occurs each winter and early spring through small-particle aerosols or droplets. The influenza virus attacks epithelial cells of the upper and lower respiratory tract, with the potential for secondary bacterial infection and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The symptoms of influenza infection include fever, headache, cough, sore throat, myalgia, and nasal congestion. Lower respiratory tract manifestations such as pneumonia and bronchiolitis are virtually indistinguishable from other viral infections. Children with certain comorbidities, such as chronic lung disease and severe neurologic impairment, are at higher risk of influenza-related complications. The most reliable test for influenza is reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Rapid antigen tests have lower sensitivity and specificity and are not reliable during periods of low influenza activity. Antiviral treatment with NA inhibitors can shorten the duration of fever, symptoms, and hospitalization, especially when started within 48 hours of influenza illness onset. Prevention of influenza through annual influenza vaccination is recommended for all children 6 months of age and older. The vaccines contain three or four influenza subtypes, chosen depending on the circulating strains. The two formulations approved for children are the inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV) and live-attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV).