BACKGROUND Incisional hernias remain a significant complication of abdominal surgeries. Primary closure of the hernia defect has been suggested to improve long-term abdominal wall function. However, this can be technically challenging and time consuming. This study describes laparoscopic use of non-absorbable barbed sutures in primary closure of hernia defects in addition to intraperitoneal mesh. METHODS Patients who underwent laparoscopic primary ventral hernia repair with mesh were prospectively reviewed. Two groups were defined: Operations performed with barbed sutures for primary closure in addition to mesh and operations with only mesh without defect repair. The surgical technique involved running the hernia defect with a 2-polypropylene non-absorbable unidirectional barbed suture and subsequently fixing the mesh intraperitoneally with tacks. In both groups, a single transfascial centering suture was also utilized. RESULTS Twenty-eight cases with barbed suture and mesh reinforcement and 29 cases with mesh-only were identified. The average dimensions of the ventral hernia defects were 57.8 (6-187) and 44.6 cm(2) (9-156) in the barbed suture with mesh and mesh-only group, respectively, p = 0.23. Median operating time was 78 min (range 35-187 min) in the barbed suture with mesh group versus 62 min (34-155 min) in the mesh-only group, p = 0.44. The median suturing time of closing the ventral hernia defect was 16 min (11-24 min). There were no differences in the pain scores. Mean follow-up for both groups was 8.2 ± 3.6 months (1-17 months) with one hernia recurrence in the mesh-only group, p = 0.41. CONCLUSIONS The barbed suture closure system could be used for rapid and effective primary defect closure in laparoscopic ventral hernia repair in addition to intraperitoneal mesh placement. No significant difference in operating time was detected when compared to the mesh-only approach. Further evidence to support these findings and longer follow-up periods is warranted to evaluate short- and long-term complications.