Abstract Alphaviruses, such as Chikungunya virus, O’Nyong–Nyong virus, Ross River virus, have been widely known to cause fever, rash, and rheumatic diseases. In addition, several other alphaviruses, for instance Eastern equine encephalitis virus, Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus, and Western equine encephalitis virus, potentially cause fatal encephalitis in humans. These diseases are considered as neglected tropical diseases for which there are no current antiviral therapies or vaccines available. The replication process in alphaviruses depends on four nonstructural proteins, NSP1–NSP4, which are produced as a single polyprotein. Therefore, the Alphavirus-mediated diseases in humans remain challenging among the virologists worldwide. Thus researchers are trying to find out proficient approaches, including the discovery of novel chemotherapeutic agents for the possible management and treatment of infected patients. Attempts were also made to identify an active compound against alphaviruses from natural sources. The genomes of various alphaviruses have already been revealed, and the function of proteins may be predicted by homology modeling, with the known proteins of closely related viruses. With the help of this information of protein modeling and subsequent virtual screening approach, the research teams will be able to identify few potential leads. The drug discovery against various alphaviruses is still in its early stages. Moreover, consolidating the available information and making it available for the scientific community are urgent requirements to expedite the research of potential drug discovery. The current chapter describes the techniques available to prevent Alphavirus infection and to treat Alphavirus-associated malignancies. In addition, we also discuss the recent outcomes in the fields of synthetic and natural medicinal chemistry research that were solely aimed to fight against Alphavirus infection. Thus the present chapter may also help and expedite the drug discovery and development of inhibitors against nonstructural proteins of various alphaviruses.