Each year, over 98% of the almost 4 million pregnant patients in the United States receive prenatal care-a crucial preventive service to improve outcomes for moms and babies. National guidelines currently recommend 12-14 in-person prenatal visits, a schedule unchanged since 1930. In scrutinizing the standard prenatal visit schedule, it quickly becomes clear that prenatal care is overdue for a redesign. We have strong evidence of the benefit of many prenatal services, like screening for gestational diabetes and maternal vaccination. Yet how to deliver these services is much less clear. Studies of prenatal services consistently demonstrate such care can be delivered in fewer than 14 visits, and that we do not need to provide all maternity services in person. Telemedicine has emerged as a promising care delivery option for patients seeking greater flexibility, and early trials leveraging virtual care and remote monitoring have shown positive maternal and fetal outcomes with high patient satisfaction. Our institution has worked for the past year on a new prenatal care pathway. Our initial work assessed the literature, elicited patient perspectives, and captured the insights of experts in patient-centered care delivery. Two key principles emerged to inform prenatal care redesign: 1) design care delivery around essential services, using in-person care for services that cannot be delivered remotely and offering video visits for other essential services; and 2) create flexible services for anticipatory guidance and psychosocial support that allow patients to tailor support to meet their needs through opt-in programs. The rise of COVID-19 prompted us to extend this early work and rapidly implement a redesigned prenatal care pathway. In this paper, we outline our experience rapidly transitioning prenatal care to a new model with 4 in-person visits, 1 ultrasound visit, and 4 virtual visits (the 4-1-4 prenatal plan). We then explore how lessons from this implementation can inform patient-centered prenatal care redesign during and beyond the COVID-19 pandemic.