BACKGROUND Ligation clips are used ubiquitously throughout minimally invasive surgery for apposition of tissues. Their size limits their application beyond ligation of small tubular structures. A novel clip and clip applicator that allows for broad-area clamping and rotation has been developed by our team. The primary aim of this study is to provide preliminary data assessing tensile strength of the clip across apposed segments of bowel. METHODS A comparative study evaluating the maximum load (N) held across two apposed tissues by (a) our novel broad-area clip and (b) a conventional commercial clip was performed. Two sections of porcine bowel were clamped together and the maximum load (N) was measured using a tensile strength material testing machine. A preliminary experiment comparing staple line leak pressures in a porcine model ± clip enforcement of staple line was also conducted. p < 0.05 determined statistical significance. RESULTS Twenty-four samples (intervention = 15; control = 9) of porcine bowel annealed by surgical clips were tested. The mean maximum force withheld by the bowel and staples was greater for our novel clip design (2.043 ± 0.831 N) than the control clip (1.080 ± 0.466 N, p = 0.004). Ten staple line (intervention = 5; control = 5) pressures of porcine bowel were measured. There was no statistically significant difference between the leak pressures with clip reinforcement (84.8 mmHg; range 71.8-109.8 mmHg), or without (54.1 mmHg; range 26.3-98.9 mmHg). CONCLUSION These preliminary results suggest that our novel clip is able to withstand higher tensile force across tissues compared to a leading commercial clip. A small preliminary trial of effect on leak pressures demonstrated no statistical significance; however, increasing reliability of staple line deformation may be a clinically important finding. Whilst further iteration of product design and clinical testing is required, this product may occupy an important clinical niche through staple line reinforcement, enterotomy closure and other applications.