Context Behavioural interventions are used to prevent, manage and treat a wide variety of conditions including obesity, diabetes, chronic pain, asthma and emotional difficulties. There has been inadequate attention to the delivery of behavioural interventions to younger children (5-11 years old). Objective Our objectives were to describe the characteristics of behavioural interventions for children aged 5-11 years. Data sources We searched five databases: CINAHL, EMBASE, PsycINFO, MEDLINE and Cochrane Library, from January 2005 to August 2019. Study selection The inclusion criteria were (1) children aged 5-11, (2) cognitive and/or behavioural interventions, (3) randomised controlled trials and (4) 2005 onward. Two researchers independently identified studies for inclusion. Data extraction Two researchers independently extracted data from eligible papers. Results The search identified 10 541 papers. We extracted information on 117 interventions (from 152 papers). Many of the interventions were categorised as complex. This was particularly true for clinical populations; 78.7% were delivered to both the child and parent, and 33.9% took place across multiple settings, typically health and school settings. Most (70.9%) were 'First Wave' (behavioural) interventions, and few (4.3%) were 'Third Wave' (characterised by metacognition, acceptance and mindfulness). Thirty-nine per cent used interactive techniques (play, arts, story and/or games). Purely digital and paper-based interventions were rare, but around a third used these tools as supplements to face-face delivery. There were differences in interventions for younger (5-7 years) and older (8-11 years) children. Conclusions Interventions designed and delivered to children should be developmentally sensitive. This review highlights characteristics of interventions delivered to children 5-11 years old: the involvement of the child's parent, using behavioural (rather than cognitive) modalities, using interactive techniques and some interventions were delivered across multiple settings.