Aging influences an organism’s entire physiology, affecting functions at the molecular, cellular, and systemic levels and increasing susceptibility to many major chronic diseases. The changes in the immune system that accompany human aging are very complex and are generally referred to as immunosenescence. The factors and mechanisms of immunosenescence are multiple and include, among others, defects in the bone marrow, thymic involution, and intrinsic defects in the formation, maturation, homeostasis, and migration of peripheral lymphocytes. Aging affects both the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system. The process of aging is commonly accompanied by low-grade inflammation thought to contribute to neuroinflammation and to many age-related diseases. Numerous attempts to define the role of chronic inflammation in aging have implicated chronic oxidative stress, mitochondrial damage, immunosenescence, epigenetic modifications, and other phenomena. Several lifestyle strategies, such as intervening to provide an adequate diet and physical and mental activity, have been shown to result in improved immune and neuroprotective functions, a decrease in oxidative stress and inflammation, and a potential increase in individual longevity. The studies published thus far describe a critical role for nutrition in maintaining the immune response of the aged, but they also indicate the need for a more in-depth, holistic approach to determining the optimal nutritional and behavioral strategies that would maintain immune and other physiological systems in elderly people. In this chapter, we focus first on the age-related changes of the immune system. Further, we discuss possible deleterious influences of immunosenescence and low-grade inflammation (inflammaging) on neurodegenerative processes in the normally aging brain. Finally, we consider our current understanding of the modulatory potential of nutrition that may mediate anti-inflammatory effects and thus positively affect immunity and the aging brain.