Drainage of the thorax postoperatively using chest tubes is a standard procedure in thoracic surgery. However, chest tubes can induce pain and immobilization, increase risk of infection, deteriorate the ventilation capacity, and increase difficulty of postoperative management, particularly in children. This study aimed to investigate the safety and effect of excluding chest tubes after performing thoracoscopic lobectomy in selected children.A retrospective review of medical records was performed in West China Hospital of Sichuan University from January 2014 to June 2018. Patients who underwent thoracoscopic lobectomy without chest tubes were recorded. Patients with accompanying severe pulmonary infection, extensive thoracic adhesions, or undeveloped interlobar fissure were excluded.In total, 246 patients underwent thoracoscopic lobectomy without a chest tube, and none required chest drain insertion or reintervention during hospitalization and follow-up at 90 days postoperatively. Among them, 2 (0.81%) patients developed a delayed pneumothorax which was found after being discharged, and resolved spontaneously in 2 weeks. No hemothorax, atelectasis, and bronchial fistula were found. Furthermore, 202 (82.1%) patients developed subcutaneous emphysema, which was asymptomatic and spontaneously resolved within 3 to 7 days. The length of postoperative hospital stay was 2 days; patients were discharged in the 3rd day postoperatively. Patients could recover to free mobilization and resume regular diet at 6 hours postoperatively. All patients were followed up for at least 3 months; no other complications were found, and all patients recovered well.This study showed that chest tube placement in selected patients may be unnecessary in children undergoing thoracoscopic lobectomy. The minimally invasive procedure and meticulous resection have been the preconditions of this procedure, which may contribute to a rapid recovery and can avoid the chest tube-related complications effectively.