INTRODUCTION Automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) normally takes place overnight. Maintaining a stable PD catheter position, independent of body position, omental wrapping or catheter displacement secondary to bowel movements is essential in maintaining effective catheter function. METHODS We developed a new procedure of catheter placement through combining and adapting several previously described operative techniques including laparoscopic placement of a curled double cuff Tenckhoff catheter with subcutaneous tunneling superior to the rectus sheet, an oblique course through the abdominal wall, deep entry into the pelvic peritoneum and directed placement of the curled tip within the pouch of Douglas. Retrospective analysis of catheter function was conducted, evaluating catheter position, function, complication rate and catheter survival against findings for current insertion techniques described within literature. RESULTS Between March 2009 and November 2011, 54 patients underwent PD catheter insertion. The observation period was an average of 343 ± 273 days. All patients received abdominal plain film showing optimal catheter position in 89 %. Reported catheter function was very good in 85.2 %, with no or few alarms per week during APD, moderate in 9.3 % with occasional minor dysfunctions (≤ 2 alarms per night), and poor in 5.6 %, with regular alarm disturbance. In one case, primary dysfunction led to catheter replacement. At completion, stable catheter function with occasional minor dysfunction was achieved in 52 of 54 cases. Catheter-related complications (leakage, hydrocele formation, infection and need for replacement) were observed in 14.8 %. At the end of the observation period, 55.6 % of catheters remained in use. Patient dropout occurred through death (18.5 %), renal transplantation (7.4 %), renal recovery (1.9 %), removal secondary to infection or dysfunction (9.3 %) and conversion to HD due to poor dialysis quality (7.4 %). CONCLUSION The above technique combines and optimises previously described laparoscopic catheter implantation techniques, allowing increased catheter stability resulting in an undisturbed catheter function suitable for APD.