AIM In this study, buccal swabs from patients with the clinical picture of parotitis epidemica in whom mumps virus (MV) infection was not confirmed by direct detection or serologically were tested. The aim was to detect by molecular methods nucleic acids (NAs) of other respiratory viruses possibly involved in salivary gland swelling. At the same time, paired sera, if available, were tested. MATERIAL AND METHODS The study group consisted of 72 buccal swabs from patients of the Clinic of infectious, tropical, and parasitic diseases, Na Bulovce Hospital. Paired sera were available from ten patients. Samples were collected in 2013 to 2015. Buccal swabs were tested by PCR for the presence of NAs of adenoviruses (AdV), bocaviruses (hBoV), parainfluenza viruses of types 1-4 (HPIV), human metapneumovirus (hMPV), coronaviruses (HCoV: NL63, OC43, HKU1, and 229E), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), influenza A virus, influenza B virus, and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Paired sera were screened by the complement fixation test (AdV and influenza A and B viruses), hemagglutination inhibition test (HPIV types 2 and 3), ELISA (AdV, EBV), and immunofluorescence (EBV). RESULTS NAs from viruses other than the mumps virus were detected in 27 of 72 patients with clinical symptoms of parotitis epidemica, and serological tests revealed etiological links with parainfluenza viruses in three more cases. Overall, 30 (41.7%) of 72 patients with suspected mumps tested positive for one or more viruses from the study panel. The most commonly detected viruses were AdV 11/72 (15.3%), EBV 9/72 (12.5%), and HPIV 3/72 (4.2%), but influenza A virus (H3N2) 1/72 (1.4%) was also found. Some patients tested positive for more than one virus: 2/72 (3%) for AdV plus hBoV and 1/72 (1.4%) for HPIV plus HCoV. In addition, examination of paired sera revealed HPIV positivity in three more patients. PCR and serology detected etiological link with HPIV in six (8.3%) of 72 patients tested. CONCLUSION In our study group, nearly 42% of patients with the clinical picture of parotitis epidemica in whom mumps virus (MV) infection was not confirmed by direct detection or serologically tested positive for viruses other than the mumps virus. Thorough laboratory diagnosis of suspected mumps in vaccinated persons is important not only for the treatment of patients and adoption of isolation and other measures, but also for a better understanding of the epidemiology of the disease and outcomes of the immunisation programmes.