BACKGROUND Allograft meniscal transplantation is known as a possible procedure to solve pain and loss of function in the knee of patients with a history of subtotal or total meniscectomy. PURPOSE This work was undertaken to evaluate, using subjective questionnaires and clinical and radiographical scores, patients who underwent an arthroscopically assisted meniscal allograft transplantation with a minimum follow-up between 5 and 15 years (range, 62-169 months). STUDY DESIGN Case series; Level of evidence, 4. METHODS Demographic data of 49 patients (50 meniscal allograft transplantations) were collected. At the latest follow-up visit, the authors collected preoperative and follow-up Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), Lysholm, Tegner, and Short Form 36 (SF-36) scores, and visual analog scale (VAS) scores for pain for comparison. Patients were also evaluated with a standardized clinical examination of the knee to objectively evaluate knee-related symptoms. Standard weightbearing radiographs and a full-leg standing radiograph were performed to evaluate the progression of osteoarthritis and malalignment. RESULTS Five patients underwent total knee replacement and were considered failures, 8 patients could only be contacted by phone, and 2 patients were lost to follow-up, so 34 patients underwent the complete study protocol (except for 1 patient who did not have a radiographical evaluation because of pregnancy). The study group consisted of 18 men and 16 women, with a mean age of 33 years at the moment of transplantation and with an average follow-up of 8 years and 9 months. There were only a few concomitant procedures. There was a significant (P < .001) and clinically relevant decrease in the VAS (7 to 3.4) and increase in KOOS (35.8 to 60.2), Lysholm (39.7 to 71.8), and total SF-36 (51.5 to 75.2) from preoperative mean score to postoperative mean score. This improvement stayed consistent during the follow-up period. Despite this improvement, there was no increase in Tegner activity level (P = .604). The more severe the osteoarthritis, the less the improvement. There was a significant (P < .001) increase in osteoarthritis in 42% of the patients (14 of 33), as scored following the Kellgren-Lawrence classification. When strictly respecting the indications, there was no significant correlation between preoperative cartilage damage, preoperative osteoarthritis, alignment deviation, gender, and body mass index and the outcome scores or improvement. In this series, with few concomitant procedures, there was no difference in outcome between medial and lateral transplants. CONCLUSION Meniscal allograft transplantation may result in important pain relief and functional improvement in patients with a history of (sub)total meniscectomy and pain localized in the affected compartment. Strictly following the indications, meniscal transplantation can give good and predictable results. In 58% of patients, there was no increase in osteoarthritis according to the Kellgren-Lawrence classification. In 42%, there was a slight or moderate increase in osteoarthritis. No severe increase was noted.