BACKGROUND: Plasma fractionators have implemented many improvements over the past decade directed toward reducing the likelihood of pathogen transmission by purified blood products, yet little has been published attempting to assess the overall impact of these improvements on the probability of safety of the final product. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Safety margins for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis A virus (HAV), parvovirus B19, and variant form of Creutzfeldt‐Jakob disease (vCJD) were calculated for the two fibrin sealants licensed in the United States and for thrombin. These products were selected because their use in a clinical setting is, in most cases, optional, and both were relatively recently approved for marketing by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Moreover, thrombin and fibrinogen both undergo two dedicated virus inactivation steps and/or removal steps in accord with the recommendations of regulatory agencies worldwide. Safety margins were determined by comparing the potential maximum viral loads in contaminated units to viral clearance factors, ultimately leading to the calculation of the residual risk per vial. RESULTS: The residual risk of pathogen transmission per vial was calculated to be less than 1 in 10(−15) for HIV, HCV, HBV, and HAV for both fibrinogen and thrombin. Owing to the greater quantities that can be present and its greater thermal stability, the calculated risk for parvovirus transmission was 1 in 500,000 vials for fibrinogen and less than 1 in 10(7) per vial for thrombin. Assuming that vCJD is found to be present in plasma donations, its risk of transmission by these purified and processed plasma derivatives would appear to be very low. CONCLUSIONS: The pathogen safety initiatives implemented by plasma fractionators over the past 10 to 20 years have resulted in products with excellent pathogen safety profiles. Of the agents examined, parvovirus continues to have the lowest calculated margin of safety. Despite this, parvovirus transmissions should be rare. Manufacturers are encouraged to continue exploring processes to further enlarge parvovirus safety margins and to continue exploring ways of eliminating prions.