Contact tracing can play a vital role in controlling human-to-human transmission of a highly contagious disease such as COVID-19. To investigate the benefits and costs of contact tracing, we develop an individual-based contact-network model and a susceptible-exposed-infected-confirmed (SEIC) epidemic model for the stochastic simulations of COVID-19 transmission. We estimate the unknown parameters (reproductive ratio R0 and confirmed rate {delta}2) by using observed confirmed case data. After a two month-lockdown, states in the USA have started the reopening process. We provide simulations for four different reopening situations: under "stay-at-home" order or no reopening, 25% reopening, 50% reopening, and 75% reopening. We model contact tracing in a two-layer network by modifying the basic SEIC epidemic model. The two-layer network is composed by the contact network in the first layer and the tracing network in the second layer. Since the full contact list of an infected individual patient can be hard to obtain, then we consider different fractions of contacts from 60% to 5%. The goal of this paper is to assess the effectiveness of contact tracing to control the COVID-19 spreading in the reopening process. In terms of benefits, simulation results show that increasing the fraction of traced contacts decreases the size of the epidemic. For example, tracing 20% of the contacts is enough for all four reopening scenarios to reduce the epidemic size by half. Considering the act of quarantining susceptible households as the contact tracing cost, we have observed an interesting phenomenon. When we increase the fraction of traced contacts from 5% to 20%, the number of quarantined susceptible people increases because each individual confirmed case is mentioning more contacts. However, when we increase the fraction of traced contacts from 20% to 60%, the number of quarantined susceptible people decreases because the increment of the mentioned contacts is balanced by a reduced number of confirmed cases. The main contribution of this research lies in the investigation of the effectiveness of contact tracing for the containment of COVID-19 spreading during the initial phase of the reopening process of the USA.