INTRODUCTION Reticular hybrid meshes represent an alternative material for intraperitoneal repair of abdominal hernias. These consist of a reticular mesh coated or interwoven/knitted with inert materials. This study assesses the performance of two reticular polypropylene-containing hybrid meshes, TiMESH (coated with titanium) and DynaMesh (interwoven with polyvinylidene fluoride), in vitro, as well as their efficiency in adhesion prevention and tissue incorporation in an intraperitoneal model. METHODS The mesothelialization capacity of TiMESH and DynaMesh was evaluated in vitro and compared to that of Surgipro (reticular bare polypropylene) and Preclude (laminar expanded polytetrafluoroethylene). Mesh fragments were placed on the intact parietal peritoneum of New Zealand white rabbits (n = 24), and laparoscopy performed 7 days post-surgery. Fourteen days post-implantation, adhesions were evaluated and host tissue incorporation, macrophage response, collagen expression (immunohistochemistry/RT-PCR) and neoperitoneum formation assessed. Adhesions and omental tissue were also examined. RESULTS Mesh pores in reticular meshes were devoid of cells in the in vitro study. TiMESH, DynaMesh and Surgipro showed similar adhesion rates at 7/14 days and optimal tissue integration, with significant differences in comparison to Preclude. The greatest presence of macrophages was observed for TiMESH and was significant versus that for Preclude. Hybrid meshes revealed significantly higher collagen 1 mRNA expression in implants, with no differences in the levels of collagen 3. Omental samples from animals with a reticular mesh showed significantly greater collagen 1 mRNA levels. CONCLUSIONS The reticular structure of a mesh limits the formation of a continuous mesothelial monolayer in vitro, regardless of its composition. The presence of titanium as a coating or polyvinylidene fluoride interwoven with polypropylene in a reticular structure did not prevent adhesions. The hybrid meshes showed proper integration and an increase in the mRNA Col 1 levels in the implant area compared to Surgipro or Preclude.