Background and aims: With the growing number of COVID-19 cases in recent times, the varied range of presentations is progressively becoming an addressing issue among clinicians. A significant set of patients with extra pulmonary symptoms has been reported worldwide. Neurological involvement in the form of altered mental status, loss of consciousness in considerable amounts has drawn attention of physicians all across the globe. Here we venture out to summarise the clinical profile, investigations and radiological findings among patients with SARS-CoV-2 associated meningoencephalitis in the form of a systematic review, which may aid clinicians in early diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of the disease. Methodology: This review was carried out based on the existing PRISMA (Preferred Report for Systemic Review and Meta analyses) consensus statement. The data for this review was collected from four databases: Pubmed/Medline, NIH Litcovid, Embase and Cochrane library and Preprint servers up till 10th June, 2020. Search strategy comprised of a range of keywords from relevant medical subject headings which includes "SARS-COV-2", "COVID-19", "meningoencephalitis" etc. All peer reviewed, case control, case report, pre print articles satisfying our inclusion criteria were involved in the study. The inclusion prerequisites comprised of confirmed SARS-CoV-2 cases with neurological manifestations, previous cases of SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV with neurological involvement provided all the studies were published in English language. Quantitative data was expressed in mean+/-SD, while the qualitative date in percentages. Paired t test was used for analysing the data based on differences between mean and respective values with a p value of <0.05 considered to be statistically significant. Results: A total of 43 cases were involved from 24 studies after screening from databases and preprint servers, out of which 29 of them had completed investigation profile and were included in the final analysis. Clincial and Laboratory findings as well as neuroimaging findings (CT, MRI and MRS) revealed consistent presentations towards association of COVID-19 with meningoencephalitis. Epileptogenic pictures were also evident on EEG (electroencephalogram) findings. Conclusion: SARS-CoV-2 has been isolated from CSF as well as cerebrum of cases with meningoencephalitis depicting the natural tendency of the virus to invade the central nervous system. Speculations about retrograde olfactory transport or alternative haematogenous spread seem to be correlating with above findings. This review may raise the index of suspicion about COVID-19 among clinicians while attending patients with neurological manifestations.