INTRODUCTION Bacterial contamination from viscerotomy is a barrier to natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES). The aim of this survival study is to evaluate pure (totally) transvaginal NOTES bacterial contamination compared with laparoscopy in pigs. METHODS Twelve adult female pigs underwent peritoneoscopy with liver and peritoneal biopsies, using either laparoscopy (Glap, six animals) or pure transvaginal (GNOTES) access, and were maintained alive for 7 days. In all animals, blood cultures were taken at baseline, and after 24 h and 7 days postoperatively. Swab cultures from vagina (GNOTES) and skin (Glap) were obtained pre- and post-antisepsis. Peritoneal fluid culture was obtained at necropsy. For statistical analysis, Glap and GNOTES were compared for presence of positive bacterial cultures (qualitative bacterial analysis) using Fisher's test, with level of significance set at p < 0.05. RESULTS All animals had good postoperative outcome. One animal had transient perioperative bleeding from a transvaginal access. Two animals in Glap and one in GNOTES had positive blood cultures after the procedure. All animals from GNOTES and Glap presented with mixed flora pre-antisepsis. After antisepsis, one animal (GNOTES) presented with a positive vaginal swab culture (a single bacterial strain was identified). There was no positive skin swab culture in Glap. There were no signs of intra-abdominal infection at necropsy. In two animals, one from Glap and another from GNOTES, intra-abdominal culture was positive for Corynebacterium spp. and Escherichia coli, respectively. There was no correlation between the bacterial flora found at the access site and in the peritoneal cultures. CONCLUSIONS Pure transvaginal peritoneoscopy with liver and peritoneal biopsy in swine is feasible and associated with bacterial contamination comparable to laparoscopy. Peritoneal bacterial contamination was clinically insignificant after 1 week postoperatively. Preoperative antisepsis provided significant reduction of bacterial load prior to transvaginal and laparoscopic procedures.