OBJECTIVE At present, minimal invasive direct coronary artery grafting is the least invasive nonrobotic surgical approach to revascularize the left anterior descending artery with the left internal mammary artery. Total endoscopic coronary bypass grafting is performed with the help of a telemanipulator ("robot"). A prospective proof-of-concept study was initiated to investigate a nonrobotic total endoscopic coronary bypass grafting approach. METHODS Twenty patients with significant left anterior descending artery or left main stem lesion were operated on via three or four left thoracic access ports. Under exclusive endoscopic vision, the left internal mammary artery was harvested and anastomosed to the left anterior descending artery manually. Cardiopulmonary bypass and cardioplegic arrest were planned in all cases. RESULTS In 10 patients, the operation was completed successfully as nonrobotic total endoscopic coronary bypass grafting. Reasons for conversions to minimal invasive direct coronary artery grafting or conventional sternotomy were dense pleural adhesions (3 patients), bleeding of the anastomosis (3), diffuse bleeding during left internal mammary artery harvesting (2), identification problems of the target artery (1), or left internal mammary artery failure (1). Postoperative angiography in five primarily successful nonrobotic total endoscopic coronary bypass grafting patients showed patent anastomoses in four cases. One patient was reoperated on for early anastomotic failure in a 1.0-mm target vessel. Until now, a percutaneous coronary intervention of remaining lesions as staged hybrid procedure was performed in three patients (2 nonrobotic total endoscopic coronary bypass grafting, 1 minimal invasive direct coronary artery grafting). CONCLUSIONS With a thoroughly surveyed learning curve, nonrobotic total endoscopic coronary bypass grafting procedure could become an alternative to other available treatment options; however, the value of the procedure has to be further investigated.