BACKGROUND: Increased vascular permeability is a key feature in the pathophysiology of sepsis and the development of organ failure. Shedding of the endothelial glycocalyx is increasingly being recognized as an important pathophysiological mechanism but at present it is unclear if glypicans contribute to this response. We hypothesized that plasma levels of glypicans (GPC) are elevated in patients with sepsis. METHODS: Plasma GPC 1–6 levels were measured by ELISA in 10 patients with sepsis and 10 healthy controls as an initial screening. Plasma GPC 1, 3, and 4 were further measured in a cohort of 184 patients with a clinically confirmed infection. Patients were divided into groups of those who had sepsis and those who had an infection without organ failure. To determine whether plasma glypicans could predict the development of organ failure, patients were further subdivided to those who had organ failure at enrolment and those who developed it after enrollment. The association of plasma GPC 1, 3, and 4 with organ failure and with various markers of inflammation, disease severity, and glycocalyx shedding was investigated. RESULTS: In the pilot study, only GPC 1, 3, and 4 were detectable in the plasma of sepsis patients. In the larger cohort, GPC 1, 3, and 4 levels were significantly higher (p < 0.001) in patients with sepsis than in those with infection without organ failure. GPC 1, 3, and 4 were significantly positively correlated with plasma levels of the disease severity markers C-reactive protein, lactate, procalcitonin, and heparin binding protein, and with the marker of glycocalyx degradation syndecan 1. They were significantly negatively correlated with plasma levels of the glycocalyx-protective factors apolipoprotein M and sphingosine-1-phosphate. CONCLUSIONS: We show that GPC 1, 3, and 4 are elevated in plasma of patients with sepsis and correlate with markers of disease severity, systemic inflammation, and glycocalyx damage. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1186/s40635-018-0216-z) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.