PURPOSE The purpose of this article was to report the utility of computed tomography (CT) for detecting unsuspected cases of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and the utility of the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA)/Society of Thoracic Radiology (STR)/American College of Radiology (ACR) consensus guidelines for COVID-19 reporting. MATERIALS AND METHODS A total of 22 patients of the 156 reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction confirmed COVID-19 patients who were hospitalized between March 27, 2020 and March 31, 2020 at our quaternary care academic medical center and who underwent CT imaging within 1 week of admission were included in this retrospective study. Demographics and clinical data were extracted from the electronic medical record system. Two thoracic radiologists independently categorized each CT study on the basis of RSNA/STR/ACR consensus guidelines. Disagreement in categorization was resolved by consensus discussion with a third thoracic radiologist. RESULTS At the time of imaging, 16 patients (73%) were suspected of COVID-19, and 6 patients (27%) were not. Common symptoms at presentation were fever (73%), cough (77%), and gastrointestinal symptoms (59%). An overall 63% of suspected COVID-19 patients exhibited shortness of breath, whereas 0 unsuspected COVID-19 patients did (P=0.02). On the basis of the RSNA consensus guidelines, 68%, 18%, 9%, and 5% of studies were categorized as "typical appearance," "indeterminate appearance," "atypical appearance," and "negative for pneumonia," respectively. There was no difference of category distribution between suspected and unsuspected COVID-19 patients (P=0.20), with "typical appearance" being the most prevalent in both (69% vs. 67%, respectively). CONCLUSIONS It is important to recognize imaging features of COVID-19 pneumonia even in unsuspected patients. Implementation of the RSNA/STR/ACR consensus guidelines may increase consistency of reporting and convey the level of suspicion for COVID-19 to other health care providers, with "typical appearance" especially warranting further attention.