BACKGROUND: Mycoplasma pneumoniae (M. pneumoniae) is one of the most common causes of community acquired pneumonia (CAP). Establishing an early diagnosis of M. pneumoniae pneumonia in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) may have important therapeutic implications. METHODS: We describe diagnosis and management of M. pneumoniae pneumonia induced ARDS in a case series of adults and youth hospitalized with radiographically confirmed CAP prospectively enrolled in an observational cohort study in two university teaching hospitals, from November 2017 to October 2019. RESULTS: In all 10 patients, early and rapid diagnosis for severe M. pneumoniae pneumonia with ARDS was achieved with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) testing of samples from the lower respiratory tract or pleural effusion. The average PaO(2)/FiO(2) of all patients was 180 mmHg. Of the 10 cases, 4 cases had moderate ARDS (100 mmHg ≤ PaO(2)/FiO(2) < 200 mmHg) and 3 cases had severe ARDS (PaO(2)/FiO(2) < 100 mmHg). High flow nasal cannula (HFNC) was applied in all patients, though only two patients were sufficiently supported with HFNC. Invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) was required in 5 patients. High resistance (median 15 L/cmH(2)O/s) and low compliance (median 38 ml/cmH(2)O) was observed in 4 cases. In these 4 cases, recruitment maneuvers (RM) were applied, with 1 patient demonstrating no response to RM. Prone positioning were applied in 4 cases. Two cases needed ECMO support with median support duration of 5.5 days. No patient in our case series received corticosteroid therapy. All patients were survived and were discharged from hospital. CONCLUSIONS: Early and rapid diagnosis of severe M. pneumoniae pneumonia with ARDS can be achieved with PCR/mNGS tests in samples from the lower respiratory tract or pleural effusion. In our case series, half of M. pneumoniae pneumonia induced ARDS cases were adequately supported with HFNC or NIV, while half of cases required intubation. RM and prone position were effective in 30% of intubated cases, and 20% needed ECMO support. When early anti-mycoplasmal antibiotics were given together with sufficient respiratory support, the survival rate was high with no need for corticosteroid use.