BACKGROUND: The calcium-selective channel TRPV6 (transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6) is crucial for maternal-fetal calcium transport across the placenta. TRPV6 mutations have recently been associated with an antenatally severe under-mineralising skeletal dysplasia accompanied by postnatal biochemical abnormalities. This is the first post-mortem report in a patient with TRPV6 skeletal dysplasia. CASE PRESENTATION: The female infant had severe antenatal and postnatal skeletal abnormalities by 20 weeks gestation and was ventilator-dependent from birth. These skeletal abnormalities were apparent at an earlier gestational age than in previous reported cases and a more severe clinical course ensued. Biochemical and skeletal abnormalities, including bone density, improved postnatally but cardiac arrest at 4 months of age led to withdrawal of intensive care. Compound heterozygous TRPV6 variants (c.1978G > C p.(Gly660Arg) and c.1528C > T p.(Arg510Ter)) were identified on exome sequencing. Post-mortem identified skeletal abnormalities but no specific abnormalities in other organ systems. No placental pathology was found, multi-organ histological features reflected prolonged intensive care only. Post-mortem macroscopic examination indicated reduced thoracic size and short, pale and pliable ribs. Histological examination identified reduced number of trabeculae in the diaphyses (away from the growth plates), whereas metaphyses showed adequate mineralisation and normal number of trabeculae, but with slightly enlarged reactive chondrocytes, indicating post-natal skeletal growth recovery. Post-mortem radiological findings demonstrated improved bone density, improved rib width, healed fractures, although ribs were still shorter than normal. Long bones (especially humerus and femur) had improved from initial poorly defined metaphyses and reduced bone density to sharply defined metaphyses, prominent growth restart lines in distal diaphyses and bone-in-bone appearance along diaphyses. CONCLUSIONS: This case provide bone histological confirmation that human skeletal development is compromised in the presence of TRPV6 pathogenic variants. Post-mortem findings were consistent with abnormal in utero skeletal mineralisation due to severe calcium deficit from compromised placental calcium transfer, followed by subsequent phenotypic improvement with adequate postnatal calcium availability. Significant skeletal recovery occurs in the early weeks of postnatal life in TRPV6 skeletal dysplasia.