Objective Microwave ablation (MWA) of liver malignancies has gained much traction over the past 5 years. However, MWA carries relatively higher rates of residual disease compared to resection. Likelihood of MWA success is multifactorial and newer devices with more reliable ablation zones are being developed to overcome these drawbacks. This manuscript is a review of our first 100 liver ablations with the newer single antenna high powered MWA system. Materials and Methods Retrospective chart review of patients that underwent MWA for either primary or secondary hepatic malignancies between March 2015 and July 2016 was conducted. The complete ablation rates, rate of new lesions, complications, and short-term survival were analyzed. Multiple statistical tests, including multivariate regression, were used to assess risk factors for local residual and recurrent disease. Results Fifty-three patients (median age 61 ± 9 years, 39 males) underwent 100 MWAs. Of the 100 lesions ablated, 76 were hepatocellular cancers (HCCs) and 24 were metastases. Median lesion size was 16 ± 9 mm. Seventy- five of these patients had multifocal disease targeted in the same session. Seventy patients had cirrhosis (median model for end-stage liver disease score 9 ± 3; Child-Pugh B and C in 42%). An 83% complete lesion ablation rate was seen on follow-up imaging with liver protocol magnetic resonance imaging/computed tomography (median follow-up of 1 year). The minor complication rate was 9.4% with no major complications or 30-day mortality. Despite this, evidence of new foci of hepatic disease was found in 47% of patients, the majority (80%) of which were in HCC patients (P < 0.01) and most of these new lesions were in a different hepatic segment (64%). Degree of cirrhosis (P < 0.01), presence of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) (P = 0.01) and lesion's subcapsular location (P = 0.03) was significant predictors of residual disease. With the subset analysis of only HCC lesions larger than 1 cm, only the presence of NASH remained significant. Conclusion The single probe high power MWA of malignant hepatic lesions is safe and effective with minimal morbidity. Degree of cirrhosis, NASH, and subcapsular location was associated with an increased rate of residual disease on short-term follow-up.