We use all the currently known 405 Papillomavirus (PV) sequences, 343 curated PV sequences from both humans and animals from the PAVE data base, to analyse the recombination dynamics of these viruses at the whole genome levels. After showing some evidence of human and non-human primate PV recombination, we report a comprehensive recombination analysis of all currently known 82 Alphapapillomaviruses (Alpha-PVs). We carried out an exploratory study and found novel recombination events between High-Risk HPV Types and Macaca fascicularis PV1 (MfPV1), Macaca Fuscata PV2 (MfuPV2) and Pan Paniscus PV1 (PpPV1) Papillomaviruses. This is the first evidence of interactions between PVs from different hosts and hence postulates the likelihood of ancient host switching among Alpha-PVs. Notwithstanding these results should be interpreted with caution because the major and minor parents indicated by RDP4 program are simply the sequences in the alignment that most closely resemble the actual parents. We found statistically significant differences between the phylogenies of the PV sequences with recombination regions and PV sequences without recombination regions using the Shimodaira–Hasegawa phylogenetic incongruence testing. We show that not more than 76MYA Alpha-PVs were in the same biological niche, a pre-requisite for recombination, and as the hosts evolved and diversified, the viruses adapted to specific host niches which eventually led to coevolution with specific hosts before speciation of primate species. Thus providing evidence that in ancient times no earlier than the Cretaceous period of the Mesozoic age, Alpha-PVs recombined and switched hosts, but whether this host switching is occurring currently is unknown. However, a clearer picture of the PVs evolutionary landscape can only be achieved with the incremental discovery of PV sequences, especially from the animal kingdom. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s00239-020-09946-0) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.