Background: Since December 2019, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has massively spread, with overwhelming of health care systems and numerous deaths worldwide. To remedy this, several countries, including France, have taken strict lockdown measures, requiring the closure of all but essential places. This unprecedented disruption of daily routines has a strong potential for disrupting nutritional behaviours. Nutrition being one of the main modifiable risk factors for chronic disease risk, this may have further consequences for public health. Our objective was therefore to describe nutritional behaviours during the lockdown period and to put them in light of individual characteristics. Methods: 37,252 French adults from the web-based NutriNet-Sante cohort filled lockdown-specific questionnaires in April-May 2020 (nutritional behaviours, body weight, physical activity, 24h-dietary records). Nutritional behaviours were compared before and during lockdown using Student paired t-tests and associated to individual characteristics using multivariable logistic or linear regression models. Clusters of nutritional behaviours were derived from multiple correspondence analysis and ascending hierarchical classification. Results: During the lockdown, trends for unfavourable nutritional behaviours were observed: weight gain (for 35%; +1.8kg on average), decreased physical activity (53%), increased sedentary time (63%), increased snacking, decreased consumption of fresh food products (especially fruit and fish), increased consumption of sweets, biscuits and cakes. Yet, opposite trends were also observed: weight loss (for 23%, -2kg on average), increased home-made cooking (40%), increased physical activity (19%). These behavioural trends related to sociodemographic and economic position, professional situation during the lockdown (teleworking or not), initial weight status, having children at home, anxiety and depressive symptoms, as well as diet quality before the lockdown. Modifications of nutritional practices mainly related to routine change, food supply, emotional reasons but also to voluntary changes to adjust to the current situation. Conclusion: These results suggest that the lockdown led, in a substantial part of the population, to unhealthy nutritional behaviours that, if maintained in the long term, may increase the nutrition-related burden of disease and also impact immunity. Yet, the lockdown situation also created an opportunity for some people to improve their nutritional behaviours, with high stakes to understand the leverages to put these on a long-term footing.