AIM: The management of urology patient is currently disrupted by the COVID-19 epidemic. In the field of functional urology, there are clinical situations with a high risk of complication if management is delayed and a great heterogeneity of advisable reprogramming times after cancellation. A prioritization of functional urology procedures is necessary to adapt management during the COVID-19 crisis and to better organize post-epidemic recovery. MATERIAL AND METHODS: The advice of AFU scientific committees in the field of functional urology (neuro-urology, female and perineology, male LUTS) was requested and supplemented by a review of the currently available recommendations on the subject of urology and COVID-19. These opinions were combined to draw up temporary recommendations to help reorganize practices during the epidemic and prepare the post-critical phase. RESULTS: Most of the recommendations available on career-oriented social networks (Twitter, LinkedIn) or in literature concern cancer or general urology. Eight out of ten propose a cancellation of all functional urology procedures without distinction. But the 3 AFU committees covering the field of functional urology have identified three clinical situations in which surgical procedures that can be maintained during the COVID-19 epidemic (priority level A): conclusion of a neuromodulation test in progress (implantation or explantation), botulinum toxin A bladder injections for unbalanced neurologic bladder, cystectomy and ileal conduit for urinary fistula in perineal bedsore or refractory unbalanced neurologic bladder with acute renal failure and vesico-enteric or prostato-pubic fistulas. Management adaptation of the other pathologies are proposed, as well as the application of 3 priority levels (B, C, D) for rescheduled procedures for a better management of the post-crisis activity resumption. CONCLUSION: The joint functional urology committees indicate that there are specific clinical situations in this field that demand non-delayed care during COVID crisis. They underline the need to establish a hierarchy for the cancelled surgeries, in order to reduce the arm of long reschedule delays and to optimize post-lockdown activity resumption.