OBJECTIVES: Psychological stress may have an adverse impact on the voice. The purpose of the present cross-sectional study was to investigate the relationship between the change in levels of perceived psychological stress and vocal symptoms among Israeli academic college professors required to shift to synchronous online teaching during the global COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: An online questionnaire was completed by 313 professors (156 men and 157 women) from 14 academic colleges in Israel at the end of the first week of online synchronous teaching during the COVID-19 pandemic, which was assumed to be the most burdened and stressful week of the transition. Participants provided self-reports for the current levels of psychological stress and vocal symptoms during the transition to online synchronous teaching, as well as general psychological stress and general vocal symptoms during previous periods of teaching. RESULTS: The results revealed higher levels of psychological stress but not vocal symptoms during the transition to online synchronous teaching compared with previous periods of teaching. Psychological stress during the transition to online synchronous teaching was positively associated with vocal symptoms during this period but this association was moderated by general stress. Although there was a positive association between psychological stress and vocal symptoms for individuals who reported low levels of psychological stress during previous periods of teaching, this association was especially strong for individuals who reported high levels of psychological stress during previous periods of teaching. CONCLUSIONS: It is important to examine vocal symptoms of professors in specific contexts that are potentially stressful. The psychological stress surrounding the transition to online synchronous teaching was associated with elevated levels of vocal symptoms especially for those who reported high levels of psychological stress during previous periods of teaching. These results with professors accord with the notion that psychological stress may have a negative impact on the voice.