INTRODUCTION Laparoscopic reconstructive surgery is associated with a steep learning curve related to the use of two-dimensional (2D) vision and rigid instruments. With the advent of robotic surgery, three-dimensional (3D) vision, and articulated instruments, this learning curve has been facilitated. We present a hybrid alternative to robotic surgery, using laparoscopy with 3D vision and articulated shears. OBJECTIVE To compare outcomes of children undergoing pyeloplasty using 3D laparoscopy with articulated instruments with those undergoing the same surgery using standard laparoscopy with 2D vision and rigid instruments. STUDY DESIGN Medical charts of 33 consecutive patients with ureteropelvic junction obstruction who underwent laparoscopic pyeloplasty by a single surgeon from 2006 to 2013 were reviewed in a retrospective manner. The current 3D cohort was compared with the previous 2D cohort. Data on age, weight, gender, side, operative time, dimension (2D = 19 patients, 3D = 8 patients), presence of a crossing vessel, length of hospital stay, and complication rate were compared between the two groups. Articulating shears were used for pelvotomy and spatulation of the ureter in the 3D group. Statistical tests included linear regression models and chi square tests for trends using STATA software. RESULTS Operative time per case was decreased by an average of 48 min in the group undergoing 3D laparoscopic pyeloplasty compared with the group undergoing 2D laparoscopic pyeloplasty (p = 0.02) (Figure). Complication rate and length of hospital stay were not significantly affected by the use of 3D laparoscopy. DISCUSSION These favorable results are in accordance with previous literature emphasizing the importance of 3D vision in faster and more precise execution of complex surgical maneuvers. The use of flexible instruments has also helped overcome the well-described delicate step of a dismembered pyeloplasty, namely the pelvotomy and ureteral spatulation. Limitations of this study are those inherent to the retrospective study design. CONCLUSION The use of 3D vision endoscopy with articulating instruments blurs the distinction between current robotic-assisted and conventional laparoscopic technology, and provides a hybrid alternative deserving further attention.