INTRODUCTION Incisional and ventral hernias are common surgical indications. Their management is associated with significant complications and recurrences in open surgery (15-25%). Since laparoscopy has become a standard in bariatric surgery, there has been a natural trend to treat obese patients with parietal wall defects laparoscopically. The aim of our study was to evaluate the feasibility and the results of the laparoscopic management of parietal wall defects in patients with a BMI >35. MATERIALS AND METHODS A series of 79 patients were included. Data were acquired prospectively and analyzed retrospectively. The surgical procedure was standardized: 3 ports, mesh type (Parietex™ Composite mesh, Covidien, France), fixation with non-absorbable transfascial sutures, and tackers. Complications were evaluated. RESULTS Out of 79 patients (29 men, 50 women), 43 had umbilical and 36 had ventral hernias. Mean age was 52.4 years, and mean BMI was 40.83 kg/m(2). Mean postoperative hospital stay was 2 days. Postoperative pain evaluated by visual analog scale was 2.86. No intraoperative complications or deaths occurred. Seven postoperative complications occurred (8.86%): two parietal wall hematomas treated by radiological embolization, two significant cases of postoperative pain, one postoperative obstruction, one spontaneously resolved respiratory failure, and one early (day 1) parietal wall defect with immediate reoperation. Postoperative seroma rate was 26.58% (21 patients, all of whom were treated conservatively). Postoperative follow-up was 18.10 months (1-84 months), and recurrence rate was 3.8% (3 patients). DISCUSSION This study confirms the feasibility and safety of the laparoscopic approach for ventral hernias in morbidly obese patients. Recurrence rates (3.8%) appeared lower than the ones observed in the literature (15-25%). Postoperative hemorrhage and port-site hernia are specific complications of this approach. Postoperative hospital stay is low (2 days) as compared to open surgery. Laparoscopic management of parietal wall defects should be considered a standard option in morbidly obese patients.