INTRODUCTION Surgery without scars is the dream of many patients and surgeons as well. It includes many new laparoscopic techniques (LESS, SILS, hybrid NOTES), but data concerning common bile duct (CBD) lesions are unavailable. AIM To establish the new technique of minilaparoscopic cholecystectomy (MCh): non-visible scar intervention without increasing the risk of CBD lesions. MATERIAL AND METHODS Forty consecutive patients with symptomatic gallbladder lithiasis were qualified for elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LCh) using one 10/11 mm umbilical port, one 5 mm right suprapubic port and two minilaparoscopic, disposable, no-port graspers. There were 26 women and 14 men, with the mean age 56 (17-72) years and with the average body mass index 28 (18-33) kg/m(2). CO2 Veress 15 mm Hg pneumoperitoneum was performed after transumbilical incision, and the first 10/11 mm port was inserted at the beginning for the 5 mm laparoscope and finally for typical instruments. Next under camera control, a 5 mm trocar was inserted in the right 'bikini line'. To this port the laparoscope was relocated from the umbilicus, and under its control two minilaparoscopic, disposable, non-port graspers were introduced after small, 2 mm skin incisions in the right anterior axillary line and in the right mesogastrium to catch the gallbladder. Next through the umbilical port, using typical instruments, the cystic duct and artery were dissected, clipped and cut. The gallbladder was removed through the umbilical port whole. RESULTS There was no conversion to open cholecystectomy. In 5 cases drainage of the gallbladder lodge was necessary through a 5 mm port in the right bikini line. The time of the intervention ranged from 90 min during the introduction of the new method to 50 min for the last procedures. No postoperative complications were observed, and all patients were discharged at the same time as after conventional LCh. CONCLUSIONS Two-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed with two minilaparoscopic no-port graspers does not increase the risk of CBD lesions. It provides an excellent cosmetic effect and is very convenient for the surgeon like typical LCh.