Background Many people living and working with rare diseases describe consistent difficulties accessing appropriate information and support. In this study an evaluation of the awareness of rare diseases, alongside related information and educational resources available for patients, their families and healthcare professionals, was conducted in 2018-2019 using an online survey and semi-structured interviews with rare disease collaborative groups (charities, voluntary and community groups) active across Northern Ireland (NI). Results Ninety-nine participants engaged with the survey with 31 respondents providing detailed answers. Resources such as information, communication, registries, online services, training and improvements to support services were queried. Excellent communication is an important factor in delivering good rare disease support. Training for health professionals was also highlighted as an essential element of improving support for those with a rare disease to ensure they approach people with these unique and challenging diseases in an appropriate way. Carers were mentioned several times throughout the study; it is often felt they are overlooked in rare disease research and more support should be in place for them. Current care/support for those with a rare disease was highlighted as inadequate. Nine semi-structured interviews were conducted with rare disease collaborative groups. Reoccurring themes included a need for more effective: information and communication, training for health professionals, online presence, support for carers, and involvement in research. Conclusions All rare disease collaborative groups agreed that current services for people living and working with a rare disease are not adequate. An important finding to consider in future research within the rare disease field is the inclusion of carers perceptions and experiences in studies. Due to the unique role a carer has in the life of a person with a rare disease it is vital that their voice is heard and their needs are listened to. This research provides insight into the support available for rare diseases across Northern Ireland, highlights unmet needs in service provision, and suggests approaches to improve rare disease support prioritising improved information and communication provision, improved access to services, and tailored support for carers of people with a rare disease. Keywords Collaboratives groups; communication; Northern Ireland; online; rare disease semi-structured interview; social media; support; survey