PURPOSE: This paper describes the radiological and clinical findings identified in a group of patients with H1N1 influenza. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between May and mid-November 2009, 3,649 patients with suspected H1N1 influenza presented to our hospital. Our study population comprised 167 (91 male, 76 female patients, age range 11 months to 82 years; mean age 29 years) out of 1,896 patients with throat swab positive for H1N1 and clinical and laboratory findings indicative of viral influenza. All 167 patients were studied by chest X-ray (CXR), and 20 patients with positive CXR and worsening clinical condition also underwent computed tomography (CT). The following findings were evaluated on both modalities: interstitial reticulation (IR), nodules (N), ground-glass opacities (GGO), consolidations (CONS), bacterial superinfection and pulmonary complications. RESULTS: Ninety of 167 patients had positive CXR results. Abnormalities identified on CXR, variously combined and distributed, were as follows: 53 IR, 5 N, 13 GGO, 50 CONS; the predominant combination was represented by six GGO with CONS. Of the 20 CXR-positive cases also studied by CT, 17 showed pathological findings. The abnormalities identified on CT, variously combined and distributed, were as follows: 14 IR, 2 N, 5 GGO; the predominant combination was 10 GGO with CONS. Despite the differences between the two modalities, the principle radiological findings of bacterial superinfection were tree-in-bud pattern, consolidation with air bronchogram, and pleural and pericardial effusion. Fifteen of the 20 patients studied by both CXR and chest CT showed respiratory complications with bilateral and diffuse CONS on CXR and CT. Six of 15 died: 4/6 of acute respiratory distress syndrome and 2/6 of multiple organ failure. CONCLUSIONS: Our study describes the radiological and clinical characteristics of a large population of patients affected by H1N1 influenza. CXR and chest CT identified the site and extent of the pulmonary lesions and documented signs of bacterial superinfection and pulmonary complications.