OBJECTIVES: The COVID‐19 pandemic has created uncertainty that has heightened fear and worry worldwide, thus elevating the potential for a growth in anxiety. This study aims to examine changes in levels of COVID‐19 concern and safety behaviours among persons living in Croatia during the period in which the first COVID‐19 case was identified and when the country recorded its first fatality. These changes were examined with respect to gender and family circumstances. DESIGN: The repeated cross‐sectional data were conducted over two time points over the 3 weeks (N (1) = 888; N (2) = 966). METHODS: Participants completed online questionnaire regarding various COVID‐19 concerns and safety behaviours aimed at disease prevention. RESULTS: Findings demonstrate dramatic increase in concern and safety behaviours among participants during the 3 weeks between the first identified case and the first fatality. The results suggest that parents, and mothers especially, represent the most concerned group, regardless of age. People with chronic health conditions also expressed greater concern and safety behaviour than healthy participants, but with small effect size. CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the importance of developing clear guidelines for alleviating the negative effects on mental health through effective communication strategies that minimize fear and emphasize positive behavioural change. STATEMENT OF CONTRIBUTION: What is already known on this subject? In times of pandemic, people react with elevated levels of anxiety and some will adjust their behaviours in order to protect themselves as well as their family and friends. Some of the measures introduced to protect the spread of the COVID‐19 disease have induced an atmosphere of fear, which in turn can lead to an increase in maladaptive anxiety and a greater burden on mental health. What does this study add? By conducting the research in two waves representing two critical time points in the developing COVID‐19 situation in Croatia, we were able to trace a large increase in anxiety levels and safety behaviours among the general population. There is a discordance between those who are at most risk from serious consequences of the disease and those who are at greatest risk for maladaptive anxiety. Parents, and mothers in particular, represent the most concerned group, regardless of age. Lockdown measures have allowed us to ensure the safety of those vulnerable for serious COVID‐19 illness. Now, we must focus on preserving the mental health of our whole community.