Background The novel surgical procedure transanal total mesorectal excision (taTME) has rapidly become an interest of research in order to overcome the shortcomings of laparoscopic surgery in the treatment of middle and low rectal cancer. taTME is a new natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery modality combining three rectal surgery techniques. Methods A retrospective clinical study was conducted in a single centre for a period of 3 years, and herein we report on our first 25 taTME procedures in patients with middle and lower third rectal adenocarcinoma. Results The main demographics were evaluated. The mean age of patients was 64 ± 12 years. There were predominantly males (72%) and 7 female patients (28%) with an average body mass index of 29 ± 4.8 kg/m2. High blood pressure, obesity, chronic heart insufficiency, chronic atrial fibrillation, and diabetes mellitus were commonly diagnosed in all patients. A circumferential resection margin >1 mm was achieved in 16% (n = 4), >2 mm in 40% (n = 10), and >3 mm in 44% (n = 11) of operated patients. The average CRM was 1.8 ± 0.9 cm. In 24% of cases, the distance of a tumour from the mesorectal fascia (MRF) was <1 mm; meanwhile, for 76% of patients, the tumour margin was >1 mm from the MRF. Recovery to flatus was 3 ± 1 days. The average length of hospital stay was 11 ± 3 days. The overall postoperative morbidity was 8%, i.e. one (4%) complication classified as Clavien-Dindo degree I and one (4%) major (IIIb) complication. Subsequently, all patients successfully recovered and were discharged from hospital. During the follow-up period no cancer recurrence was observed. Conclusion Our results nicely demonstrate that taTME can be safely performed with acceptable perioperative complications in patients with middle or lower third rectal cancer. In addition, the perioperative morbidity is also acceptable. However, taTME remains a technically highly demanding operation but is feasible and safe after the appropriate experience is gained. Nevertheless, larger multi-centre prospective randomised studies are ongoing to confirm the safety and to verify oncological results when compared to laparoscopic rectal surgery.