— Coronaviruses take the lead in gastrointestinal pathologies of animals and are spread all around the world. Causative agents of coronaviruses belong to Nidovirales order, Coronaviridae family which includes 2 subfamilies: Toroviridna (genera Torovirus and Bafinivirus) and Coronaviridna (genera Alphavirus, Betavirus, Gammavirus). Dividing of the latter by genera (groups I-III) was based on serological cross-reactions. Group I includes pathogens causing diseases in animals, such as swine coronavirus, feline infectious peritonitis virus. Group II includes pathogens of veterinary importance, such as BCoV, porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus, horse coronavirus, viruses infecting mice and rats, as well as human coronaviruses that cause respiratory damage. Group III includes at the moment only avian coronaviruses. Coronavirus got its name in 1968 because of its special structure and appearance – it has spikes which resemble solar corona. In humans, coronavirus was first isolated by D. Tyrrell and M. Bynoe in 1965 from a patient with acute respiratory disease. Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2002, and then Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) in 2012 made specialists significantly increase the level of epidemic danger of coronaviruses. Due to its high virulence, virus multiplication rate in macrophages, pathogen replication, and antibody production increase significantly. At the end of 2019, coronavirus strain 2019-nCoV of Betacoronavirus genus was found in patients with pneumonia in China, and by early 2020 it spread all around the world. In animals, coronavirus leads to damage to mucous membranes. The amount of economic damage associated with disease caused by coronavirus is significant and includes death of animals, decreased meat and dairy productivity, decreased weight gain, culling, loss from abortion and infertility. In this regard, a demand arose for developing project of a device for express analysis for Coronaviridae antigen for the early diagnosis of coronaviruses. Based on the express analysis technique using solid-phase immunochromatographic medium, a project for express analysis for Coronaviridae antigen based on Omron industrial programmable logic controller was developed; it includes process chart for equipment, functional diagram and logical equations.