BACKGROUND Anastomotic complications following colorectal surgery are associated with significant morbidity and mortality. For patients in whom systemic sepsis is absent or well controlled, minimal access techniques, such as endoscopic therapies, are being increasingly employed to reduce the morbidity of surgical re-intervention. In this review, we aim to assess the utility of endoscopic management in the acute setting of colorectal anastomotic complications, focusing on anastomotic leak. METHOD A literature search was performed for published full text articles using the PubMed, Cochrane and Scopus databases using the search criteria string "colorectal anastomotic ("leak" OR "bleed"), "endoscopy", endoscopic management". Additional papers were detected by scanning the references of relevant papers. Data were extracted from each study by two authors onto a dedicated pro-forma. Given the nature of the data extracted, no meta-analysis was performed. RESULTS A total of 89 papers were identified, 16 of which were included in this review; an additional 14 papers were obtained from reference searches. In patients who are not physiologically compromised, there are promising data regarding the salvage rate of stents, over-the-scope endoscopic clips, vacuum therapy and fibrin glue in the early management of colorectal anastomotic leak. There is no consensus regarding the optimal approach, and data to assist the physician in patient selection are lacking. Whilst data on salvage (i.e. healing and avoidance of surgery) are well understood, no data on functional outcomes are reported. CONCLUSION Endoscopic therapy in the management of stable patients with colorectal anastomotic leaks appears safe and in selected patients is associated with high rates of technical success. Challenges remain in selecting the most appropriate strategy, patient selection, and understanding the functional and long-term sequelae of this approach. Further evidence from large prospective cohort studies are needed to further evaluate the role of these novel strategies.