BACKGROUND Laparoscopic total gastrectomy (LTG) has not become as popular as laparoscopic distal gastrectomy (LDG) because of the more difficult reconstruction technique. Despite various modifications of reconstruction methods after LTG, an optimal procedure has yet to be established. The authors report the newly developed reconstruction technique after LTG: intracorporeal circular stapling esophagojejunostomy using the transorally inserted anvil (OrVil; Covidien, Mansfield, MA, USA). METHODS After full mobilization of the abdominal esophagus, the esophagus is transected with an endoscopic linear stapler. The anvil is then transorally inserted into the esophagus by using the OrVil system. After jejunojejunostomy is performed through a 4-cm midline minilaparotomy, preparing a 50-cm Roux-en-Y jejunal limb, a circular stapler is inserted into the jejunum and introduced into the abdominal cavity. Pneumoperitoneum is established by sealing off the laparotomy wound retractor with a surgical glove attached to the circular stapler. Double-stapling esophagojejunostomy with a circular stapler is performed intracorporeally, and the jejunal stump is closed with an endoscopic linear stapler. RESULTS Of the 16 patients who underwent this operation, there was no intraoperative complication or conversion to open surgery, and no patient required an extension of the initial incision for anastomosis. Mean operation time and blood loss were 194 min and 272 ml, respectively. One patient developed an intra-abdominal abscess postoperatively. Postoperative fluorography revealed no anastomosis leakage or stenosis in any of the patients. Patients resumed an oral liquid diet on postoperative day 3-5, and the mean postoperative hospital stay was 11 days. CONCLUSIONS We have successfully performed LTG with Roux-en-Y reconstruction using our technique in 16 patients without any anastomosis complications. We believe that our procedure is a secure and reliable reconstruction method after LTG, which is especially useful in obese patients, in whom conventional extracorporeal anastomosis often is difficult.