Background The novel coronavirus (Covid-19) continues to wreck havoc across China, European countries, USA and now seems to gain a strong foothold in India. The aim of this report is to describe the clinical profiles of these Covid-19 infected patients admitted in Sawai Mansingh Hospital(S.M.S), Jaipur ranging from their age, sex, travel history, clinical symptoms, laboratory evaluation, radiological characteristics, treatment provided along with common side effects and the final outcome. The described cases are one of the earliest cases of Covid-19 in the Indian subcontinent. Methods Epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and outcomes data were obtained with data collection forms from electronic medical records and history given by 21 Covid-19 infected patients admitted in S.M.S., Jaipur. Patients were tested for Covid-19 by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay of 2019-nCoVRNA. Results and Discussion During the course of this study 21 Covid-19 positive patients were admitted in S.M.S Hospital, Jaipur. Male patients constituted 66.66% of total patients and majority of the patients (80.90%) were below 60 years of age. Most of the patients (71.40%) were either foreigners or had a history of foreign travel suggesting that these cases were not community acquired except for 4 cases from textile producing district Bhilwara (known as Manchester of India), an epicenter of North India. Approximately 33.33% patients were completely asymptomatic and of those who were symptomatic cough was the most common symptom (85.71%) followed by fever (78.57%), myalgia (64.28%), headache (28.57%) and dyspnea (28.57%). Three patients (14.28 %) had underlying co morbidity in the form of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, chronic kidney disease or coronary artery disease. 11 patients (52.38%) had lymphopenia in their hemogram during the course of admission. 3 patients (14.28%) had leucocytosis and 4 patients (19.04%) presented with thrombocytopenia. All 4 patients in the severe category had raised FDP, D-Dimer levels and they needed oxygen support. These patients had deranged liver functions and had elevated pro-calcitonin levels, serum ferritin levels and LDH levels. 1 out of the these 4 cases went into ARDS during the course of treatment. 10 patients yielded negative results for Covid-19. The mean duration from admission to getting 1st Covid-19 sample negative was 8.3 days. 18 patients (85.71%) are still under treatment. Conclusion Clinical investigations in initial Covid-19 patients in the Indian subcontinent reveal lymphopenia as predominant finding in hemogram. Patients with older age and associated comorbid conditions (COPD and diabetes) seem to have greater risk for lung injury thereby requiring oxygen support during the course of disease and these patients also had greater derangement in their biochemical profile.