BACKGROUND Inguinal hernia recurrence after surgical repair is a major concern. The authors report their experience with open and laparoscopic repair of recurrent inguinal hernias. METHODS After institutional review board approval, a retrospective review was performed with the charts of 197 patients who had undergone surgical repair of recurrent inguinal hernias from January 2000 through August 2009, and the data for 172 patients who met the inclusion criteria were analyzed. Surgical variables and clinical outcomes were compared using Student's t test, the Mann-Whitney U test, chi-square, and Fisher's exact test as appropriate. RESULTS The review showed that 172 patients had undergone either open mesh repair (n=61) or laparoscopic mesh repair (n=111) for recurrent inguinal hernias. Postoperative complications were experienced by 8 patients in the open group and 17 patients in laparoscopic group (p=0.70). Five patients (8.2%) in the open group and four patients (3.6%) in the laparoscopic group had re-recurrent inguinal hernias (p=0.28). Four patients in the open group (9.5%) and no patients in the laparoscopic group had recurrence during long-term follow-up evaluation (p=0.046). In the laparoscopic group, 76 patients (68.5%) underwent total extraperitoneal (TEP) repair, and 35 patients (31.5%) had transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) repair. Postoperative complications were experienced by 13 patients in the TEP group and 4 patients in the TAPP group (p=0.44). Two patients (2.6%) in the TEP group and two patients (5.7%) in the TAPP group had re-recurrent inguinal hernias (p=0.59). CONCLUSIONS This retrospective review showed no statistical difference in the re-recurrence rate between the two techniques during short-term follow-up evaluation. However, the laparoscopic technique had a significantly lower re-recurrence rate than the open technique during long-term follow-up evaluation. Both procedures were comparable in terms of intra- and postoperative complications. Among laparoscopic techniques, TEP and TAPP repair are acceptable methods for the repair of recurrent inguinal hernia. A multicenter prospective randomized control trial is needed to confirm the findings of this study.