OBJECTIVES Spark discharge anodic oxidation forms a porous oxide film on titanium implant surfaces, which may increase surface roughness and enhance early osseointegration. This study aimed to clinically and histomorphometric compare commercially-available sandblasted (RBM) implants, treated with hydrothermal anodization and placed into an animal maxillary sinus model. MATERIALS AND METHODS Thirty 3.75 mm × 8.5 mm threaded titanium implants were placed into the maxillary sinuses of 10 sheep via an external approach, with three test groups and 10 implants per group: right side, Control = CP-titanium with RBM surface, Test group 1 = CP-titanium with RBM + anodized surface; left side, Test group 2 = Ti-6Al-7Nb with RBM + anodized surface. Schneiderian membranes were elevated but not bone grafted. Resonant frequency analysis (RFA) was measured at surgery. Animals were sacrificed after 1 month unloaded healing. Resin-embedded undemineralized ground-sections were digitised, and mean bone-implant contact (% BIC) was measured bilaterally for the best-three consecutive threads. RESULTS Seven of 30 implants showed signs of failure. RFA was low at placement but did not differ between the groups (group mean ISQ values ranged from 23 to 35; χ(2) = 0.37). RFA was not repeated at sacrifice due to implant instability. Histomorphometric analysis showed % BIC was highest for control (34.8 ± 15.7), followed by Test 1 (29.6 ± 18.1) and Test 2 implants (23.3 ± 22.7), but this difference was not statistically significant (χ(2) = 0.3). DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS Early integration of RBM implants placed into thin maxillary sinus walls was not enhanced by hydrothermal anodization of implant surfaces. This may be related to the initial low stability of the implants and the relatively short healing period. However, non-anodized RBM surfaces showed promising results, with % BIC values comparable to the best estimates of other studies using sinus grafting. Whether the modification of the implant surfaces through anodization with simultaneous sinus grafting would promote enhanced early osseointegration, is a subject of future research.