BACKGROUND: The pandemic of new severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) due to coronavirus (CoV) 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has stressed the importance of effective diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of clinical worsening and mortality. Epidemiological data showing a differential impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on women and men have suggested a potential role for testosterone (T) in determining gender disparity in the SARS-CoV-2 clinical outcomes. OBJECTIVES: To estimate the association between T level and SARS-CoV-2 clinical outcomes (defined as conditions requiring transfer to higher or lower intensity of care or death) in a cohort of patients admitted in the respiratory intensive care unit (RICU). MATERIALS AND METHODS: A consecutive series of 31 male patients affected by SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia and recovered in the respiratory intensive care unit (RICU) of the "Carlo Poma" Hospital in Mantua were analyzed. Several biochemical risk factors (ie, blood count and leukocyte formula, C-reactive protein (CRP), procalcitonin (PCT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), ferritin, D-dimer, fibrinogen, interleukin 6 (IL-6)) as well as total testosterone (TT), calculated free T (cFT), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and luteinizing hormone (LH) were determined. RESULTS: Lower TT and cFT were found in the transferred to ICU/deceased in RICU group vs groups of patients transferred to IM or maintained in the RICU in stable condition. Both TT and cFT showed a negative significant correlation with biochemical risk factors (ie, the neutrophil count, LDH, and PCT) but a positive association with the lymphocyte count. Likewise, TT was also negatively associated with CRP and ferritin levels. A steep increase in both ICU transfer and mortality risk was observed in men with TT < 5 nmol/L or cFT < 100 pmol/L. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates for the first time that lower baseline levels of TT and cFT levels predict poor prognosis and mortality in SARS-CoV-2-infected men admitted to RICU.