OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to examine the attitudes and behaviors of emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and Paramedics when faced with the decision to care for patients with suspected Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) and to illicit suggestions for improvement of infectious disease (ID) preparedness. METHODS A convenience sample of 22 EMT/Paramedics were recruited from an emergency department at one of the designated Ebola centers. Each provider participated in one of three on-site focus groups. Participants answered questions about how they gained their knowledge, felt about caring for EVD patients, made decisions about caring for EVD patients, and suggestions for improvement of ID preparedness. Focus groups were recorded, transcribed, and coded using inductive content analysis. RESULTS Analysis revealed five prominent themes: reactions to scare, education/training, danger, decision making, and suggestions for future responses. Overall, first responders were excited to be a part of the response to EVD. They were more comfortable caring for EVD patients if they received adequate education and transparency from the administration. This resulted in a decreased perceived danger of the disease and decreased hesitancy when caring for EVD patients. However, those that expressed the most hesitancy also expressed the most emotional distress. Suggestions for improvement of ID preparedness included continuing education, tiered training models, peer training models, collaboration between emergency medical services (EMS) systems, better communication between departments, and the development of an infectious disease response team. CONCLUSIONS Although first responders were excited to be a part of the response to EVD, this did not come without hesitation and emotional distress. Some of these concerns may be mitigated by first providing a clear definition of "duty to care," followed by interventions such as the development of clear and consistent ID preparedness training and interventions that address the emotional distress experienced by these providers.