BACKGROUND Recently, single-incision laparoscopic surgery has begun to develop as an extension of standard laparoscopic minimally invasive procedures. However, there have been a limited number of reports of single-incision procedures in colorectal disease. PURPOSE The aim of this study is to describe our initial experience with single-incision laparoscopic right colectomy and to make comparisons with the current standard of care, multiport laparoscopic right colectomy. METHODS Data from consecutive patients undergoing single-incision laparoscopic right colectomy were analyzed and compared with case-matched multiport laparoscopic right colectomies. Indications for surgery, type of port used, operative time, number of nodes harvested, length of hospital stay, and complications were the outcomes measured. RESULTS During the study period, 17 patients underwent single-incision laparoscopic colectomy. Of the planned single-incision laparoscopic cases, 15 (88%) were completed with a single incision, whereas 2 required an additional port placement. There were no conversions to open surgery during any of the cases. Indications for surgery were similar between the 2 groups. Operative time was not significantly different in single-incision laparoscopic right colectomy compared with multiport laparoscopic right colectomy (139 min vs 134 min, respectively; P = .61). Length of stay and number of nodes harvested also had no significant differences between the 2 groups. There was one death after discharge to home secondary to pulmonary embolism and one delayed thermal injury in the single-incision laparoscopic group. CONCLUSION Single-incision laparoscopic right colectomy is feasible, and appears to have results similar to standard multiport right colectomy in our initial comparisons. Ongoing development in instrumentation may help to further shorten operative time and minimize complications, and may make this an equivalent or preferred method for minimally invasive colorectal surgery. Large, prospective, randomized, controlled trials should be conducted to further compare the safety and efficacy of this approach.