BACKGROUND The last 15 years have been characterized by a rapid expansion of minimally invasive surgery as treatment for adrenal diseases. During these years, both indications and surgical techniques have shown improvements. This study analyzed an 11-year single-center experience with laparoscopic adrenalectomy. MATERIALS AND METHODS Between January 1997 and April 2008, 242 laparoscopic adrenalectomies were performed in 220 patients at Rikshospitalet University Hospital. Of these, 192 patients were operated on for benign lesions, 23 for malignant lesions, and in 5 cases "en bloc" adrenalectomies were performed. Benign lesions included 136 hormonally active lesions (41 pheochromocytomas, 48 Conn adenomas, 25 Cushing adenomas, and 18 patients with Cushing's disease) and 56 with hormonally inactive lesions (among them, 47 nonfunctional adenomas). Malignant lesions included 16 adrenal metastases and 7 adrenocortical carcinomas. RESULTS All adrenalectomies were completed laparoscopically. The median time of unilatateral adrenalectomy was 85 (range, 35-325) minutes. The median blood loss was 0 (range, 0-1100) mL. There were 6 intraoperative and 7 postoperative minor complications. The number of complications did not differ between the types of adrenal pathology. Only 19% of the patients required opioids postoperatively. Per- and postoperative parameters were homogeneous among patients with different adrenal lesions. The patients with adrenocortical carcinoma had a distinctive intraoperative course with an evidently longer operative time and higher blood loss. The median postoperative hospital stay was 2 (range, 1-15) days. Hospital stay was the only postoperative parameter where a difference was found between patients with different adrenal lesions. The patients with carcinoma, pheochromocytoma, and Cushing's disease had the longest median postoperative stay, respectively, 5 (range, 2-6), 3 (range, 1-15), and 3 (range, 2-6) days. CONCLUSIONS Laparoscopic adrenalectomy is a safe, effective procedure providing improved fast and uncomplicated patient recovery independent of the type of adrenal lesion. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy can be easily introduced and may soon replace traditional open surgery in specialized centers.