The purpose of this research was to understand the automation of Higher Education Institutes (HEIs), and to evaluate the automated process from the perspective of developing country. A single case study of City University of Science and Information Technology (CUSIT), Pakistan was selected as a unit of analysis. Mix methodology was used in this research. Semi-structured in-depth interviews were conducted from the top management as a primary source while secondary data regarding usage and functions of LMS was collected for the period of 2 years (four semesters Fall-2017–Spring 2019). Data from both sources was utilized, and triangulated for case building and analysis. It was found that CUSIT has a state-of-the-art automated infrastructure, management information system (MIS) and learning management system (LMS) which facilitates faculty, staff and administration. LMS provides an integrated and digital platform to key stakeholders particularly to the teachers for sharing course outlines, lesson plan, assignment generation and submission, announcements and generating assessment reports. Similarly, the student gets access to all course material, assignments, assessment report, notices, and other relevant information at any point of time. However, the system lacks some of the major E-learning features with limited support to the large file size, real time learning, online classes, real time feedback and query system etc. Furthermore, this study identified few seldomly used functions of automated system as well as few duplications and operational activities which requires consideration by the management. The case of CUSIT proves to be a practical case for all those universities who are facing challenges due to corona virus pandemic and are looking for a solution to continue education through distance learning and e-learning platforms. This study supports the automation of HEIs and provides lesson learned for the academia and management of HEIs by identification of success features as well as limitations of the system.