Recent outbreak of novel Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic around the world is associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome. The death toll associated with the pandemic is increasing day by day. SARS-CoV-2 is an enveloped virus and there are ample evidences that its Spike protein (S-protein) is mainly associated with pathogenesis as it is surface-exposed and mediates entry into host cells by binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE-2) receptor. Therefore, it is the main target of neutralizing antibodies upon infection and there is always a quest to inhibit the S-protein which in turn may help in controlling diseases caused by SARS-CoV-2 in humans. The role of Chloroquine and Hydroxychloroquine as potential treatments for Covid-19 is still under debate globally because of some side effects associated with it. This study involves the In silico interactions of Chloroquine and Hydroxychloroquine with the S-protein of SARS-CoV-2. With the help of various computational methods, we have re-explored the potential role of both of these antiviral drugs for the treatment of Covid-19 patients by comparing the efficacy of both of the drugs to bind to S-protein at its host receptor region. In our research Hydroxychloroquine exhibited potential inhibitory effectsof S-protein with binding energy -7.28 kcal/mol than Chloroquine (-6.30 kcal/mol) at SARS-CoV-2 receptor recognition of susceptible cells. The outcomes of this research strongly appeal for in vivo trials of Hydroxychloroquine for the patients infected with Covid-19. Furthermore, the recommended doses of Hydroxychloroquine may reduce the chances of catching Covid-19 to the healthcare workers and staff who are in contact with or delivering direct care to coronavirus patients as long as they have not been diagnosed with Covid-19. We further hypothesize that the comparative S-protein-drug docking interactions may help to understand the comparative efficacy of other candidate repurposing drugs until discovery of a proper vaccine.