INTRODUCTION Anastomotic leakage is one of the most feared complications of colorectal surgery. High morbidity and mortality rates are related to this complication and several studies had been performed to test new techniques which are suggested to reduce leakage rates. The aim of our study was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a novel technique sutureless anastomosis with self-gripping mesh in an animal model by examining wound healing process in anastomosis. METHODS In this study sixteen Norwegian Wistar Albino female rats were used. The rats' weights ranged from 250 to 300 g. The rats were divided into control and study groups. The control group underwent a colocolic anastomosis using the conventional method of hand-sewing with single-layer interrupted nonabsorbable sutures. The study group underwent a colocolic anastomosis using self-gripping mesh without sutures. These rats were sacrificed on the 10th postoperative day. The sample pieces obtained from the groups were subjected to anastomotic bursting pressure tests, to a test for hydroxyproline levels in the tissue and to histopathological examinations. The tissue was evaluated in terms of quantity of inflammatory cells, fibroblasts, neovascularization level and collagen content and classified according to the Ehrlich-Hunt model. Statistical analysis was done by using Mann-Whitney U test. RESULTS The burst pressure mean ± range of control and study groups were 162 ± 78 and 123 ± 35, respectively (P = 0.049). The mean peritoneal adhesion grades were 3.2 ± 0.7 in the study group and 2.3 ± 0.7 in the control group (P = 0.036). The operative time was significantly shorter in the study group. The difference between the groups by mean of hydroxyproline levels was found to be significant (P = 0.001). According to histopathological examinations by means of the Ehrlich-Hunt model, the fibroblast activation and collagen fiber ratio were higher in the study group and the difference between these measurements was statistically significant (P = 0.006; P = 0.028). CONCLUSION This study showed that use of self-gripping meshes for colocolic anastomosis in rats is a safe and feasible method. It is suggested that the most important advantage of this technique is the shorter operative time.