Introduction Laparoscopic lateral suspension with mesh (LLSM) is an effective and less invasive technique for the correction of pelvic organ prolapse. We discuss the primary objectives, subjective success rate and pelvic floor ultrasound outcomes of uterus-preserving LLSM operations. Patients and Methods Seventeen patients who underwent uterus-preserving LLSM (abdominocervicopexy) in a tertiary center were included in this prospective study. Anatomical cure was defined separately for the apical and anterior compartments as a Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification (POP-Q) score of less than - 1 cm for each compartment. Subjective cure was defined as the absence of bulge symptoms. Patient satisfaction, sexual function, prolapse-related quality of life, voiding dysfunction, nocturia and constipation were assessed. Transperineal ultrasonography was used to measure anterior compartment mobility and hiatal anteroposterior diameter. Results The anatomical cure rate was 100% for the apical and 88.2% for the anterior compartment, with one symptomatic stage-II cystorectocele and one asymptomatic stage-II cystocele. The subjective cure and patient satisfaction scores were 94.12 and 100%, respectively. Ba and C points were significantly improved, and vaginal lengthening was 10.14 ± 4.19 mm. Bp ascent was 5.72 ± 11.27 mm (p = 0.053). Proximal urethral rotation and retrovesical angles were reduced by 6.24 ± 11.95° and 27 ± 47.2°, respectively (p1 = 0.047; p2 = 0.032). The hiatal anteroposterior diameter was shortened by 4.36% (p = 0.039). A significant improvement was seen with regard to nocturia episodes but not for constipation. No mesh exposure was observed. Conclusions Uterus-preserving LLSM (abdominocervicopexy) was found to be effective for the correction of apical and anterior prolapse with high levels of patient satisfaction. Significant improvements in urge symptoms and frequency of nocturia were observed. Pelvic floor ultrasound outcomes may be useful when comparing this procedure with other surgical techniques.