The SARS-Cov-2 virion responsible for the current world-wide pandemic Covid-19 has a characteristic Spike protein (S) on its surface that embellishes both a prefusion state and fusion state. The prefusion Spike protein (S) is a large trimeric protein where each protomer may be in a so-called Up state or Down state, depending on the configuration of its receptor binding domain (RBD). The Up state is believed to allow binding of the virion to ACE-2 receptors on human epithelial cells, whereas the Down state is believed to be relatively inactive or reduced in its binding behavior. We have performed detailed all-atom, dominant energy landscape mappings for noncovalent interactions (charge, partial charge, and van der Waals) of the SARS-Cov-2 Spike protein in its static prefusion state based on recent structural information. We included both interchain interactions and intrachain (domain) interactions in our mappings in order to determine any telling differences (different so-called “glue” points or “hot spots”) between residues in the Up and Down state protomers. In general, the S2 or fusion machinery domain of S is relatively rigid with strong noncovalent interactions facilitated by helical secondary structures, whereas the S1 domain, which contains the RBD and N-terminal domain (NTD), is relatively more flexible and characterized by beta strand structural motifs. The S2 domain demonstrated no appreciable energetic differences between Up and Down protomers, including interchain as well as each protomer’s intrachain, S1–S2 interactions. However, the S1 domain interactions across neighboring protomers, which include the RBD-NTD cross chain interactions, showed energetic differences between Up-Down and Down-Down neighboring protomers. Surprisingly, the Up-Down, RBD-NTD interactions were overall stronger and more numerous than the Down-Down cross chain interactions, including the appearance of the three residue sequence ALA520-PRO521-ALA522 associated with a turn structure in the RBD of the Up state. Additionally, our intrachain dominant energy mappings within each protomer, identified a significant “glue” point or possible latch for the Down state protomer between the S1 subdomain, SD1 and the RBD domain of the same protomer that was completely missing in the Up state protomer analysis. Ironically, this dominant energetic interaction in the Down state protomer involved the backbone atoms of the same three residue sequence ALA520-PRO521-ALA522 of the RBD with the R-group of GLN564 in the SD1 domain. Thus, this same three residue sequence acts as a stabilizer of the RBD in the Up conformation through its interactions with its neighboring NTD chain and a kind of latch in the Down state conformation through its interactions with its own SD1 domain. The dominant interaction energy residues identified here are also conserved across reported variations of SARS-Cov-2, as well as the closely related virions SARS-Cov and the bat corona virus RatG13. However, these results are all based on static structure analysis and large scale dynamic simulations will be necessary to further investigate these findings. Nonetheless, static dominant energy landscape mappings represents a starting point for more detailed dynamic analyses and hopefully an improved understanding at the structure-function relationship of this highly complex protein.