BACKGROUND: The novel coronavirus (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2[SARS-CoV-2]) outbreak is now a pandemic, thousands of people now self-quarantined because of possible infection with the coronavirus, this situation makes telemedicine necessary as it can overcome geographical barriers, enlarge the size of the population served, and provide clinical support for patients online, however the outcomes of telemedicine have not yet evaluated. OBJECTIVE: To describe the epidemiological features and clinical symptoms of patients receiving remote diagnosis and treatment at the online outpatient clinic of our hospital during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak, and to analyze the outcomes and advantages of telemedicine during the COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: All patients receiving remote diagnosis and treatment and consultation services over COVID-19 concerns at the online outpatient clinic of Henan Provincial People's Hospital from January 24 to February 17, 2020, were collected. A retrospective analysis was performed on their epidemiological features, clinical symptoms, and preliminary outcomes. RESULTS: Online inquiry, consultation, and suggestions were provided over COVID-19 concerns for the patients. Meanwhile, the hospital offered offline non-contact drug delivery services following online ordering and payment. A total of 4,589 patients receiving remote diagnosis and treatment were recruited. The daily number of online outpatient visits first increased and then decreased, reaching the peak on January 28 when the daily number of online outpatient visits was 612. There were 1,940 males and 2,649 females (26.5%). The youngest was aged 78 days, and the eldest 85 years old. Most of the patients were aged 20 to 39 years old, and there were 3,714 patients in this age group, accounting for 80.9%. According to the statistics, most of the patients receiving online outpatient consultation over COVID-19 concerns came from Henan Province, and the number of such patients was 3,898, accounting for 84.9%. The number of patients from other provinces was 691, accounting for 15.1%. Based on the symptoms presented in the online outpatient consultation (one patient might be combined with more than one symptom), there were 2,383 patients with fever, 1,740 patients with cough, 796 patients with nasal obstruction, 503 patients with fatigue, and 276 patients with diarrhea. A total of 873 orders of non-contact drug delivery following online payment were completed. The daily number of such orders gradually stabilized after the initial steady increase. The median number of offline drug delivery orders was 36, and the interquartile range was 58. An online satisfaction survey was performed, and 985 responses were received. 966 respondents were satisfied, accounting for 98.1%. CONCLUSIONS: Remote diagnosis and treatment offered via the online outpatient consultation effectively reduce the burden on hospitals, prevent overcrowding, reduce the risk of cross-infection and relieve patients' anxiety during the COVID-19 outbreak, which play an essential role in the pandemic management.