BACKGROUND The application of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) may reduce dynamic strain during mechanical ventilation. Although numerous approaches for PEEP titration have been proposed, there is no accepted strategy for titrating optimal PEEP. By analyzing intratidal compliance profiles, PEEP may be individually titrated for patients. METHODS After obtaining informed consent, 60 consecutive patients undergoing general anesthesia were randomly allocated to mechanical ventilation with PEEP 5 cmH2O (control group) or PEEP individually titrated, guided by an analysis of the intratidal compliance profile (intervention group). The primary endpoint was the frequency of each nonlinear intratidal compliance (CRS) profile of the respiratory system (horizontal, increasing, decreasing, and mixed). The secondary endpoints measured were respiratory mechanics, hemodynamic variables, and regional ventilation, which was assessed via electrical impedance tomography. RESULTS The frequencies of the CRS profiles were comparable between the groups. Besides PEEP [control: 5.0 (0.0), intervention: 5.8 (1.1) cmH2O, p < 0.001], the respiratory and hemodynamic variables were comparable between the two groups. The compliance profile analysis showed no significant differences between the two groups. The loss of ventral and dorsal regional ventilation was higher in the control [ventral: 41.0 (16.3)%; dorsal: 25.9 (13.8)%] than in the intervention group [ventral: 29.3 (17.6)%; dorsal: 16.4 (12.7)%; p (ventral) = 0.039, p (dorsal) = 0.028]. CONCLUSIONS Unfavorable compliance profiles indicating tidal derecruitment were found less often than in earlier studies. Individualized PEEP titration resulted in slightly higher PEEP. A slight global increase in aeration associated with this was indicated by regional gain and loss analysis. Differences in dorsal to ventral ventilation distribution were not found. TRIAL REGISTRATION This clinical trial was registered at the German Register for Clinical Trials (DRKS00008924) on August 10, 2015.