BACKGROUND Laparoscopic ventral hernia repair (LVHR) has been increasing in popularity over the years. Seroma formation is a common complication of LVHR. The aim of this study is to review the current evidence on seroma prevention strategies following LVHR. METHODS A systematic search of PubMed, Embase (1946-13 February 2019) and Medline (1946-13 February 2019) databases was conducted using terms which include "seroma", "hernia, ventral" and "laparoscopy". All studies are comparative retrospective or prospective human adult studies in peer-reviewed journals describing at least one intra-operative intervention designed to decrease the rate of seroma formation in laparoscopic ventral hernia repair. RESULTS The database searches identified 3762 citations, and 21 studies were included for final analysis. Five studies compared the different methods of mesh fixation, nine studies compared primary defect closure (PFC) and bridged repair, two studies compared the effect of different types of meshes, two studies looked into the use of electrical cauterization, one study compared single- site laparoscopy with conventional laparoscopy, one study looked into the use of fibrin sealant and one study compared transabdominal preperitoneal placement of mesh with conventional repair. PFC appears to be the most promising with large studies showing a low rate of seroma formation with additional benefits of decreasing wound infection and recurrence rate. Cauterisation of hernia sac and injection of fibrin sealant also show promising results but are mainly derived from small studies. Other strategies did not demonstrate benefit. CONCLUSION Currently, primary fascial closure appears to be the most promising strategy available to decrease seroma formation after LVHR based on the results of large studies. Other promising strategies that decrease dead space such as cauterisation of the sac and fibrin sealant injection will require further multicentre trials to confirm benefit before an increase in operative time and cost can be justified for their routine use.