Résumé L’état de panique associé à la pandémie liée au SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) incite à s’interroger sur les troubles anxieux que cette situation pourrait générer ou aggraver. Si la littérature a déjà fourni des projections généralistes en la matière, les données concrètes concernent à ce stage davantage le trouble de stress post-traumatique et le trouble obsessionnel compulsif, tandis que quelques évaluations s’intéressent au cadre nosographie du trouble anxieux généralisé. Le trouble panique ne se voit que peu ou pas cité et l’évocation de la « panique », au sens social, la supplante largement. Bien que d’une légitimité clinique encore débattue, le trouble panique qualifié de « respiratoire » pourrait se voir augmenter en nombre et/ou être intensifié chez les patients qui en présentent déjà. D’éventuelles situations co-morbides entre un tel trouble et la COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) doivent inciter à certaines précautions en matière de prescriptions médicamenteuses, notamment en lien avec les traitements, ou situations, sources d’hypokaliémie : (i) le salbutamol, source potentielle de surconsommation, notamment chez les patients anxieux, (ii) l’infection par le SARS-CoV-2 et plus encore en cas de diarrhées et/ou vomissements. L’hypokaliémie est associée à un risque accru de torsade de pointe, il convient donc également d’être prudent en matière de prescription de psychotropes à risque : comme avec le citalopram et l’escitalopram, des antidépresseurs indiqués dans le trouble panique, ou encore l’hydroxyzine, à visée anxiolytique. Ces données sont de nature à resituer l’importance de la prise en considération du trouble panique dans le cadre de la pandémie en cours. Abstract Although the ‘panic’ word has been abundantly linked to the SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) pandemic in the press, in the scientific literature very few studies have considered whether the current epidemic could predispose to the onset or the aggravation of panic attacks or panic disorder. Indeed, most studies thus far have focused on the risk of increase and aggravation of other psychiatric disorders as a consequence of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). Yet, risk of onset or aggravation of panic disorder, especially the subtype with prominent respiratory symptoms, which is characterized by a fear response conditioning to interoceptive sensations (e.g., respiratory), and hypervigilance to these interoceptive signals, could be expected in the current situation. Indeed, respiratory symptoms, such as coughs and dyspnea, are among the most commonly associated with the SARS-CoV-2 (59-82 % and 31-55 %, respectively), and respiratory symptoms are associated with a poor illness prognosis. Hence given that some etiological and maintenance factors associated with panic disorder – i.e., fear conditioning to abnormal breathing patterns attributable or not to the COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019), as well as hypervigilance towards breathing abnormalities – are supposedly more prevalent, one could expect an increased risk of panic disorder onset or aggravation following the COVID-19 epidemic in people who were affected by the virus, but also those who were not. In people with the comorbidity (i.e., panic disorder or panic attacks and the COVID-19), it is particularly important to be aware of the risk of hypokalemia in specific at-risk situations or prescriptions. For instance, in the case of salbutamol prescription, which might be overly used in patients with anxiety disorders and COVID-19, or in patients presenting with diarrhea and vomiting. Hypokalemia is associated with an increased risk of torsade de pointe, thus caution is required when prescribing specific psychotropic drugs, such as the antidepressants citalopram and escitalopram, which are first-line treatments for panic disorder, but also hydroxyzine, aiming at anxiety reduction. The results reviewed here highlight the importance of considering and further investigating the impact of the current pandemic on the diagnosis and treatment of panic disorder (alone or comorbid with the COVID-19).