BACKGROUND Social media has become increasingly important as a source of information for the public and is widely utilized for health-related information. The outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has exerted a negative impact on dental practices. OBJECTIVE The aim of this study is to analyze the nature and diffusion of COVID-19-related oral health information on Chinese social media Weibo. METHODS A total of 15,900 tweets related to oral health/dentistry information from Weibo during COVID-19 outbreak in China (31st December 2019 - 16th March 2020) were included in our study. The two researchers coded 1000 of the total tweets in advance and two main thematic categories with eight subtypes were refined. The included tweets were analyzed over time and geographic region, and coded into 8 thematic categories. Additionally, the time distributions of tweets containing information about dental services, needs of dental treatment and home oral care during COVID-19 epidemic were further analyzed. RESULTS People reacted rapidly to the emerging SARS-CoV-2 threat to dental services and a large amount of COVID-19-related oral health information were tweeted on Weibo. The time and geographic distribution of tweets shared similarities with epidemiological data of COVID-19 outbreak in China. Tweets containing home oral care and dental services contents were the most frequently exchanged information (30.20% and 28.16%, respectively). Significant differences of public attention were found between various types of bloggers in dental services related tweets (P < 0.001), and the tweets from the government and media engaged the most public attention. The distributions of tweets containing information about dental services, needs of dental treatment and home oral care information dynamically changed with time. CONCLUSIONS Our study overviewed and analyzed social media data on the dental services and oral health information during COVID-19 epidemic, thus providing insights for the government organization, media and dental professionals to better facilitate oral health communication and efficiently shape public concern through social media when routine dental services are unavailable during an unprecedented event. The study of nature and distribution of social media can serve as a useful adjunct tool to help make public health policies.