BACKGROUND The use of mechanical thrombectomy in the management of acute ischemic stroke is becoming increasingly popular. OBJECTIVE To identify notable factors that affect outcome, revascularization, and complications in patients with acute ischemic stroke treated with the Solitaire Flow Restoration Revascularization device. METHODS Eighty-nine patients treated with the Solitaire Flow Restoration Revascularization device (ev3/Covidien Vascular Therapies, Irvine, California) were retrospectively analyzed. Three endpoints were considered: revascularization (Thrombolysis In Cerebral Infarction), outcome (modified Rankin Scale score), and complications. Univariate analysis and multivariate logistic regression were conducted to determine significant predictors. RESULTS The mean time from onset of symptoms to the start of intervention was 6.7 hours. The average procedure length was 58 minutes. The mean NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score was 16 on arrival and 8 at discharge. Of the patients, 6.7% had a symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage, 16.8% had fatal outcomes within 3 months post-intervention, and 81.4% had a successful recanalization. Thrombus location in the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery was associated with successful recanalization (thrombolysis in cerebral infarction 2b/3) (P = .003). Of the patients, 56.6% had a favorable outcome (modified Rankin Scale score at 3 months: 0-2). In patients younger than 80 years of age, 66.7% had favorable outcome. Increasing age (P = .01) and NIHSS score (P = .002) were significant predictors of a poor outcome. On multivariate analysis, NIHSS score on admission (P = .05) was a predictor of complications. On univariate analysis, increasing NIHSS score from admission to 24 hours after the procedure (P = .05) and then to discharge (P = .04) was a predictor of complications. Thrombus location in the posterior circulation (P = .04) and increasing NIHSS score (P = .04) predicted mortality. CONCLUSION The Solitaire device is safe and effective in achieving successful recanalization after acute ischemic stroke. Important factors to consider include age, NIHSS score, and location.