BACKGROUND Physical inactivity is a global public health challenge. Physical activity (PA) promotion in healthcare delivery systems is effective to reduce physical inactivity. A primary care setting provides an appropriate environment for PA counseling since it is a primary contact with primary care or family physicians encounter the majority of the population. Lack of knowledge and inadequate training in PA counseling is one of the most important barriers to PA promotion. The purpose of this systematic review was to evaluate PA counseling training in primary care residency programs. METHODS The authors systematically searched PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus and The Cochrane Library for articles published in English from 2000 to 2017. Articles regarding PA counseling in primary care residency training were extracted and outcomes assessed for this systematic review. RESULTS Based on the initial review, 378 articles were excluded (362 articles excluded based on titles and abstracts and 16 articles excluded based on full texts). Four articles were included in this review, addressed PA counseling curricula in primary care residency training. All studies included PA counseling training as part of obesity and healthy lifestyle training. The training improved knowledge among primary care residents, but may not necessarily result in better attitudes or self-efficacy, which could be improved by elective rotations that focus on improved attitudes, self-efficacy, and professional norms for PA counseling. Brief training in counseling did not improve quality nor increase the rate of counseling. CONCLUSIONS This systematic review demonstrates a lack of evidence due to a small number of included studies. The heterogeneous outcomes from the minimal programs are needed to carefully interpret. However, this review sheds light on the importance of training in PA counseling in primary care residency programs. The development of training in PA counseling should focus on an approach that improves attitudes and the self-efficacy of primary care residents. Elective rotations, where residents voluntarily choose their subject, may provide the appropriate training period for PA counseling. Policymakers and academics should play an active role in the implementation of PA counseling as an essential competency for primary care physicians.