HYPOTHESIS Single-access laparoscopic surgery should offer minimal scarring without compromising surgical outcome. It is enhanced by both innovative port technology and technical expertise learned by developing natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES). DESIGN Sigmoidectomy in a human via a single laparoscopic port. SETTING University hospital. Patient A 40-year-old woman with previously documented diverticular abscess. INTERVENTIONS The multichannel single port (Triport; Advanced Surgical Concepts, Wicklow, Ireland) was placed at the umbilicus. The sigmoid was retracted by both intraluminal sigmoidoscopy and magnetic anchoring. Mesenteric dissection between the mid-descending colon and the colorectal junction was carried out close to the colon using a Ligasure Advance (Covidien, Valley lab, Norwalk Connecticut). The stapler anvil was passed retrogradely per ano to lie within the descending colon. A linear stapler effected proximal and distal sigmoidal transection. Magnetic attraction then delivered the in situ anvil pike into a colotomy placed adjacent to the proximal staple line. After its position was secured with an endoloop, the pike was mated with its stapler head positioned in the rectal stump. This allowed creation of a double-stapled colorectal anastomosis 10 cm from the anal verge. Specimen retrieval was performed via the umbilical port site. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Extent of scarring, occurrence of surgical complications, technical adequacy, and clinical outcome. RESULTS No intraoperative complications occurred during the 90-minute procedure. A total of 40 cm of sigmoid was resected. The patient convalesced without complication and went home 4 days after surgery. At the 1-month review, she was fully recovered and her single umbilical scar was well healed. CONCLUSIONS With advancing surgical technology and technique, truly minimally invasive surgical procedures are feasible. Understanding of NOTES can therefore extend beyond its experimental application into contemporary surgical practice.