STUDY DESIGN A laboratory investigation using porcine model. OBJECTIVE To clarify the effectiveness of the soft coagulation system for stopping bleeding from the epidural vein using different outputs and the safety in terms of tissue damage including spinal cord injury. SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA Problems associated with coagulation using an electrosurgical device, such as carbonization of tissue or adhesion to the electrode, have been highlighted. So called "soft coagulation" has been developed to solve these problems. Its' utility as well as the safety of the neural structure in spine surgery has never been reported. METHODS A total of 3 animals and 45 spinal segments were used. Total laminectomy was performed to expose the dural tube and epidural venous plexus. Stable bleeding was induced by a 22 G needle puncture. Soft coagulation monopolar output (SCM), soft coagulation bipolar output (SCB), and conventional bipolar output (CB) were used as the coagulators. Valid hemostasis was defined as macroscopically complete bleeding stoppage by coagulation within 3 minutes. The neurological assessment was evaluated by somatosensory evoked potential. Histologic analysis was performed to determine the area of thermal damage. RESULTS Valid hemostasis ratio was 75.0% of SCM group, 68.8% of SCB group, and 30.8% of CB group. Somatosensory evoked potential monitoring revealed that spinal cord injury was observed in 4 lesions (25%) of the SCM group. Neither bipolar groups (SCB and CB) showed any changes in waveform pattern. Histologic analysis revealed that severe thermal damages were observed in the epidural space of the SCM group. CONCLUSIONS The usefulness of soft coagulation is revealed in terms of bleeding stoppage from epidural vessels and reduced soft-tissue damage compared with the conventional electric device. However, assessing the potential risk of severe neural tissue damage including spinal cord injury, a bipolar soft coagulation is strongly recommended for use in spine surgery.