BACKGROUND: Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is an enteric, single-stranded, positive sense RNA virus and a significant etiological agent of hepatitis, causing sporadic infections and outbreaks globally. Tracing the evolutionary ancestry of HEV has proved difficult since its identification in 1992, it has been reclassified several times, and confusion remains surrounding its origins and ancestry. RESULTS: To reveal close protein relatives of the Hepeviridae family, similarity searching of the GenBank database was carried out using a complete Orthohepevirus A, HEV genotype I (GI) ORF1 protein sequence and individual proteins. The closest non-Hepeviridae homologues to the HEV ORF1 encoded polyprotein were found to be those from the lepidopteran-infecting Alphatetraviridae family members. A consistent relationship to this was found using a phylogenetic approach; the Hepeviridae RdRp clustered with those of the Alphatetraviridae and Benyviridae families. This puts the Hepeviridae ORF1 region within the “Alpha-like” super-group of viruses. In marked contrast, the HEV GI capsid was found to be most closely related to the chicken astrovirus capsid, with phylogenetic trees clustering the Hepeviridae capsid together with those from the Astroviridae family, and surprisingly within the “Picorna-like” supergroup. These results indicate an ancient recombination event has occurred at the junction of the non-structural and structure encoding regions, which led to the emergence of the entire Hepeviridae family. The Astroviridae capsid is also closely related to the Tymoviridae family of monopartite, T = 3 icosahedral plant viruses, whilst its non-structural region is related to viruses of the Potyviridae; a large family of plant-infecting viruses with a flexible filamentous rod-shaped virion. Thus, we identified a separate inter-viral family recombination event, again at the non-structural/structural junction, which likely led to the creation of the Astroviridae. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, we have shown that new viral families have been created though recombination at the junction of the genome that encodes non-structural and structural proteins, and such recombination events are implicated in the genesis of important human pathogens; HEV, astrovirus and rubella virus. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s12862-016-0785-y) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.