BACKGROUND Recent studies have shown improved outcomes after laparoscopic colorectal surgery compared with laparotomy for surgery for both benign and malignant colorectal diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). This study was designed to evaluate the results of laparoscopic colorectal resections in normal weight patients compared with overweight and obese patients with IBD. METHODS A retrospective analysis of a prospectively acquired institutional review board-approved surgical database was performed. All consecutive patients with IBD who underwent laparoscopy from January 1, 2000 to April 30, 2008 were reviewed. BMI, age, gender, comorbidities, ASA classification, and surgical- and disease-related variables, including 60-day postoperative complications, were reviewed. Chi-square, Mann-Whitney U test, and Student's t test were used for statistical analysis. RESULTS A total of 261 patients with IBD underwent laparoscopy: 48 were excluded and 213 were analyzed. Group I comprised 127 normal-weight patients (body mass index (BMI), 18.5-24.9 kg/m(2)), and group II included 67 overweight patients (BMI, 25-29.9 kg/m(2)) and 19 obese patients (BMI >or= 30 kg/m(2)). Crohn's disease was diagnosed in 86 (67.7%) patients in group I and 52 (60.4%) in group II. Procedures performed included ileocolic resection in 56% of patients in each group. Total colectomy with or without proctectomy was undertaken in 39.4% in group I and 40.7% in group II. The conversion rate was 18% for group I and 22.09% for group II (p > 0.005; not significant). The most common reason for conversion was failure to progress due to adhesions or phlegmon. There were no differences in major postoperative complication rates (wound infection, abscess, anastomotic leakage, or small-bowel obstruction) or mean hospital stay (6.7, 6.8, respectively), and there was no mortality. CONCLUSIONS Patients with IBD who were overweight or obese and who underwent laparoscopic bowel resection had no significant differences in the rates of conversion, major postoperative complications, or length of stay when comparing to patients with normal BMI. Therefore, the benefits of laparoscopic bowel resection should not be denied to overweight or obese patients based strictly on their BMI.