Information for Category 1 CME Credit Credit can now be obtained, free for a limited time, by reading the review articles in this issue. Please note the following instructions. Method of Physician Participation in Learning Process: The core material for these activities can be read in this issue of the Journal or online at the JACI Web site: www.jacionline.org. The accompanying tests may only be submitted online at www.jacionline.org. Fax or other copies will not be accepted. Date of Original Release: June 2018. Credit may be obtained for these courses until May 31, 2019. Copyright Statement: Copyright © 2018-2019. All rights reserved. Overall Purpose/Goal: To provide excellent reviews on key aspects of allergic disease to those who research, treat, or manage allergic disease. Target Audience: Physicians and researchers within the field of allergic disease. Accreditation/Provider Statements and Credit Designation: The American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (AAAAI) is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. The AAAAI designates this journal-based CME activity for a maximum of 1.00 AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. List of Design Committee Members: Leopoldo N. Segal, MD, MS, and Fernando J. Martinez, MD, MS (authors); Zuhair K. Ballas, MD (editor) Disclosure of Significant Relationships with Relevant Commercial Companies/Organizations: L. N. Segal has received grants from the National Institutes of Health and personal fees from Advanced Inhalation Therapies. F. J. Martinez has received a grant from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; has received personal fees from Continuing Education, Forest Laboratories, GlaxoSmithKline, Nycomed/Takeda, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bellerophon (formerly Ikaria), Genentech, Novartis, Pearl, Roche, Sunovion, Theravance, CME Incite, the Annenberg Center for Health Sciences at Eisenhower, Integritas, InThought, the National Association for Continuing Education, Paradigm Medical Communications, PeerVoice, UpToDate, Haymarket Communications, the Western Society of Allergy and Immunology, Proterixbio, Unity Biotechnology, ConCert Pharmaceuticals, Lucid, Methodist Hospital, Columbia University, Prime Healthcare, WebMD, the PeerView Network, the California Society of Allergy and Immunology, Chiesi, and the Puerto Rico Thoracic Society and is on the COPD advisory board for Janssen. Z. K. Ballas (editor) disclosed no relevant financial relationships. Activity Objectives: 1. To understand the different phenotypes of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including comorbidities, clinical course, and treatment implications. 2. To understand the pathogenesis of COPD. 3. To understand the characteristics of COPD exacerbations. Recognition of Commercial Support: This CME activity has not received external commercial support. List of CME Exam Authors: Ryan Israelsen, MD, Katherine McCormack, MD, Hannah Duffey, MD, Allison Hicks, MD, Joseph Spahn, MD, and Maureen Egan, MD Disclosure of Significant Relationships with Relevant Commercial Companies/Organizations: The exam authors disclosed no relevant financial relationships. The diagnosis and treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has been based largely on a one-size-fits-all approach. Diagnosis of COPD is based on meeting the physiologic criteria of fixed obstruction in forced expiratory flows and treatment focus on symptomatic relief, with limited effect on overall prognosis. However, patients with COPD have distinct features that determine very different evolutions of the disease. In this review we highlight distinct subgroups of COPD characterized by unique pathophysiologic derangements, response to treatment, and disease progression. It is likely that identification of subgroups of COPD will lead to discovery of much needed disease-modifying therapeutic approaches. We argue that a precision approach that integrates multiple dimensions (clinical, physiologic, imaging, and endotyping) is needed to move the field forward in the treatment of this disease.