OBJECTIVE : A National Emphysema Treatment Trial subanalysis, although finally describing outcomes as "comparable," suggested that bilateral lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS) by video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) may be slightly less morbid than by median sternotomy (MS). We report a single surgeon experience using both the MS and VATS approaches to provide additional information on this issue in a setting of uniform patient selection and perioperative management. Our hypothesis was that a VATS approach would provide equivalent or less morbidity than MS despite being applied to a group of patients subjectively selected to be higher risk than those undergoing MS. METHODS : Consecutive patients over a 9-year period underwent LVRS by one surgeon by either MS or VATS in a nonrandomized fashion. Thoracoscopy was selected over MS primarily when the surgeon estimated a greater overall risk profile and thus a greater chance of morbidity/mortality in a particular patient. RESULTS : There were 15 patients in the VATS group and 35 in the MS group. In terms of measures of risk profile, there were no differences between the groups that met statistical significance, but several values trended toward higher risk within the VATS group (eg, age, 63 VATS vs. 59 MS, P = 0.08; moderate pulmonary hypertension, 38% VATS vs. 14% MS, P = 0.11; and residual volume, 241% VATS vs. 226% MS, P = 0.32). With regard to outcomes, operative time was significantly longer in the VATS group (VATS = 155 minutes vs. MS=129 minutes, P = 0.01). All other outcomes, including the incidence of major complications (13.3% VATS vs. 17.1% MS, P = 0.39), were similar between the groups. There was a single death within 90 days (1.9% of entire series; 2.9% of MS group). CONCLUSIONS : In this series, although patients undergoing LVRS by VATS tended to have a higher risk profile, their outcomes were no worse than in those undergoing LVRS by MS. This suggests that the VATS approach to bilateral LVRS may incur slightly less morbidity and thus may be the best option in the most compromised patients who is nonetheless felt will benefit from LVRS.