Background Fluid accumulation is a common complication after abdominoplasty procedures, and is typically managed by the placement of post-surgical drains. Progressive tension sutures (PTS) have been shown to be an effective approach to reduce the dead space by point-wise mechanical fixation, allowing for drain-free procedures. Lysine-derived urethane surgical adhesive provides an alternative approach for mechanical fixation and reduction of dead space, and may reduce surgery time compared to PTS. Objectives This prospective, controlled, single center clinical study compared progressive tension suture wound closure technique without drains (control) to tissue adhesive wound closure technique without drains (test) during abdominoplasty surgery. The objective was to determine if lysine-derived urethane surgical adhesive is an effective alternative to PTS for drain-free abdominoplasty procedures. Methods Patients undergoing abdominoplasty who met the established inclusion/exclusion criteria were consented and enrolled in the study. Ten PTS (control) cases were performed, followed immediately by 10 tissue adhesive (test) cases. Results Surgeries were completed over an 8-month period. No statistical differences were identified between the two groups with regard to age, BMI, dissection surface area or flap weight. No clinical seroma formation was observed in either group. In the control (PTS) group, two patients developed small areas of dermal closure suture abscess requiring removal of suture material. One control patient developed drainage and fat necrosis thought to be related to PTS above the incision and later required a scar revision. One tissue adhesive patient developed hypertrophic scars of both her breast reduction and abdominoplasty scars requiring additional treatment. Conclusions Lysine-derived urethane surgical adhesive was applied in less time than PTS, even after accounting for holding pressure for 5 minutes. The tissue adhesive provided four times the number of attachment points compared to PTS, although the significance of this is not clear. Based on these results, the use of lysine-derived urethane surgical adhesive was found to be a safe and effective alternative to PTS to reduce seroma formation in drain-free abdominoplasty procedures. Level of Evidence 2