Swine influenza virus (SIV), porcine respiratory coronavirus (PRCV) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) are enzootic viruses causing pulmonary infections in pigs. The first part of this review concentrates on known clinical and pathogenetic features of these infections. SIV is a primary respiratory pathogen; PRCV and PRRSV, on the contrary, tend to cause subclinical infections if uncomplicated but they appear to be important contributors to multifactorial respiratory diseases. The exact mechanisms whereby these viruses cause symptoms and pathology, however, remain unresolved. Classical studies of pathogenesis have revealed different lung cell tropisms and replication kinetics for each of these viruses and they suggest the involvement of different lung inflammatory responses or mediators. The proinflammatory cytokines interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) have been shown to play key roles in several respiratory disease conditions. The biological effects of these cytokines and their involvement in human viral respiratory disease are discussed in the second part of this review. The third part summarises studies that were recently undertaken in the authors' laboratory to investigate the relationship between respiratory disease in pigs and bioactive lung lavage levels of IFN-alpha, TNF-alpha and IL-1 during single and combined infections with the above viruses. In single SIV infections, typical signs of swine "flu" were tightly correlated with an excessive and coordinate production of the 3 cytokines examined. PRCV or PRRSV infections, in contrast, were subclinical and did not induce production of all 3 cytokines. Combined infections with these 2 subclinical respiratory viruses failed to potentiate disease or cytokine production. After combined inoculation with PRCV followed by bacterial lipopolysaccharide, both clinical respiratory disease and TNF-alpha/IL-1 production were markedly more severe than those associated with the respective single inoculations. Taken together, these data are the first to demonstrate that proinflammatory cytokines can be important mediators of viral respiratory diseases in pigs.