INTRODUCTION The aim of this study was to determine whether there is an association between Cryptosporidium infections in calves and immunological factors, as well as farm-related factors or the application of the anti-cryptosporidiosis drug Halofuginone. From January to June 2010, 63 cow-calf-pairs from 20 different farms near Zürich, Switzerland have been investigated. Each cowcalf- pair was visited three times within the first 6 weeks of life to collect data of the farm and animals, as well as blood, faecal, colostral and milk samples. An ELISA using sporozoite antigen was developed for the specific detection of anti-Cryptosporidium-IgG in blood- and colostral serum. The IgG concentration in the bloodand colostral serum was determined using radial immuno diffusion test (RID). White blood cell isolation and differential blood cell counts and California Mastitis Test were performed. Bacteriological studies on quarter-milk-samples were carried out. Cryptosporidium oocysts were diagnosed with the modified Ziehl-Neelsen staining, other protozoa with the SAFC method and Eimeria oocysts and helminth eggs were diagnosed with the combined sedimentation/floatation test. ELISAs were performed for the detection of rota- and coronavirus, E. coli F5 and Cryptosporidium spp. in bovine feces (bio-X Diagnostics®, Belgium). The highest prevalence of Cryptosporidium oocysts was 54.0% and found 7 to 20 days post natum, whereas 47.1% were suffering from diarrhea. The transfer of total IgG with the colostrum and the humoral immunity of the calf could not prevent any infection with Cryptosporidium, but the severity of the diarrhea symptoms decreased with increasing total IgG concentrations. Calves housed in open sheds showed significantly more often diarrhea, i. e. they shed more Cryptosporidium oocysts during the first 4 days and 7 to 20 days post natum, respectively. Halofuginone (Halocur®) is approved for prophylaxis against cryptosporidiosis, but it showed no effect on the excretion of Cryptosporidium oocysts in the present study.