Taxanes, which are used to treat breast cancer, damage the microtubules of normal nerve cells, causing numbness of the fingers related to chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy(CIPN); therefore, effective methods for reducing numbness are needed. In 2017, it was reported that physical stimuli related to massage improved finger blood flow volumes, contributing to the regeneration of damaged nerves. We developed a method of hand therapy for breast cancer patients complaining of numbness related to anticancer drug administration, and examined its effects on numbness. Hand therapy was performed by a single therapist who received lectures at the Sophia Phytotherapy College, which is accredited by the Japan Handcare Association. The fingertips to wrist, ankle, metacarpal bones, palm, and elbow were massaged using the bilateral arms/fingers for 15minutes. We investigated the influences of daily living status(Support Team Assessment Sched- ule-Japan: STAS-J), age, body mass index(BMI), severity/site of numbness, type of numbness, type of drug, duration of breast cancer, duration of numbness, and presence or absence of lymph node dissection, and evaluated the severity of numbness using a 10-cm Visual Analog Scale(VAS). The study included 51 breast cancer patients complaining of numbness of the fingers, with a mean age of 59 years. In patients with relatively mild numbness(STAS-J 1), the VAS scores before and after hand therapy were 4.7±1.8 and 1.9±1.3, respectively, showing a marked decrease. In STAS-J 2 patients, the values were 4.9 ±1.4 and 2.1±1.3, respectively, also showing a marked decrease. Thus, this hand therapy reduced numbness in mild- and moderate-status patients. Statistical comparisons were performed between the STAS-J 1/2(mild/moderate numbness)and STAS-J 3/4(severe numbness)groups. Although the severity of numbness was not correlated with age, BMI, type of drug, lymph node dissection, or duration of breast cancer, the proportion of patients with a B1-year history of numbness was significantly larger in the STAS-J 1/2 group. The most frequent site of numbness was from the proximal interphalangeal joints to the fingertips. Concerning the severity of numbness, many patients complained of severe numbness, as represented by that after sitting straight. These results suggest that this hand therapy is effective for reducing numbness in patients receiving taxanes and complaining of mild to moderate numbness.