RATIONALE: COVID-19 poses a unique challenge; caring for patients with a novel, infectious disease whilst protecting staff. Some interventions used to give oxygen therapy are aerosol generating procedures. Staff delivering such interventions require PPE and are exposed to a significant viral load resulting in sick days and even death. We aim to reduce this risk using an augmented-reality communication device: The HoloLens by Microsoft. OBJECTIVES: In a tertiary centre in London we aim to implement HoloLens technology, allowing other medical staff to remotely join the consulting clinician when in a high-risk patient area delivering oxygen therapy. The study primary outcome was to reduce the exposure to staff and demonstrate non-inferiority staff satisfaction when compared to not using the device. Our secondary outcome was to reduce extrapolated PPE costs when using the device. METHODS: Our study was conducted in March and April 2020, within a respiratory unit delivering aerosolising oxygen therapies (High flow nasal oxygen, Continuous positive airway pressure and non-invasive ventilation) to patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 infection. MEASUREMENTS: Self-reported questionnaires to assess satisfaction in key areas of patient care. An infrared people counting device was also used to assess staff in and out of the unit. MAIN RESULTS: Mean self-reported time in the high-risk zone was less when using HoloLens (2.69 hours) compared to usual practice (3.96 hours) although this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.3657). HoloLens showed non-inferiority when compared to usual practice in staff satisfaction score for all domains. Furthermore, mean staff satisfaction score encouragingly improved when using HoloLens. Self-reported PPE counts from this study showed 12 staff members changing PPE 25.8 times per shift, almost double the 13.5 times in the HoloLens count. CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated HoloLens can reduce the number of staff exposed to aerosol generating areas in a novel infectious disease. Our results show it did not impair communication, medical staff availability or end of life care. HoloLens technology may also reduce the use of PPE, which has equipment availability and cost benefits. This study provides grounding for further use of the HoloLens device by bringing a bedside experience to experts remote to the situation.