BACKGROUND Large radial tears that disrupt the circumferential fibers of the meniscus are associated with reduced meniscal function and increased risk of joint degeneration. Electrospun fibrous scaffolds can mimic the topography and mechanics of fibrocartilaginous tissues and simultaneously serve as carriers of cells and growth factors, yet their incorporation into clinically relevant suture repair techniques for radial meniscus tears is unexplored. The purposes of this study were to (1) evaluate the effect of fiber orientation on the tensile properties and suture-retention strength of multilayered electrospun scaffolds and (2) determine the mechanical effects of scaffold inclusion within a surgical repair of a simulated radial meniscal tear. The experimental hypothesis was that augmentation with a multilayered scaffold would not compromise the strength of the repair. METHODS Three multilayered electrospun scaffolds with different fiber orientations were fabricated-aligned, random, and biomimetic. The biomimetic scaffold was comprised of four layers in the following order (deep to superficial)-aligned longitudinal, aligned transverse, aligned longitudinal, and random-respectively corresponding to circumferential, radial, circumferential, and superficial collagen fibers of the native meniscus. Material properties (i.e., ultimate stress, modulus, etc.) of the scaffolds were determined in the parallel and perpendicular directions, as was suture retention strength. Complete radial tears of lateral bovine meniscus explants were repaired with a double horizontal mattress suture technique, with or without inclusion of the biomimetic scaffold sheath. Both repair groups, as well as native controls, were cyclically loaded between 5 and 20 N for 500 cycles and then loaded to failure. Clamp-to-clamp distance (i.e., residual elongation) was measured following various cycles. Ultimate load, ultimate elongation, and stiffness, were also determined. Group differences were evaluated by one-way ANOVA or Student's t-test where appropriate. RESULTS Aligned scaffolds possessed the most anisotropic mechanical properties, whereas random scaffolds showed uniform properties in the parallel and perpendicular directions. In comparison, the biomimetic scaffold possessed moduli in the parallel (68.7 ± 14.7 MPa) and perpendicular (39.4 ± 11.6 MPa) directions that respectively approximate the reported circumferential and radial tensile properties of native menisci. The ultimate suture retention load of the biomimetic scaffold in the parallel direction (7.2 ± 1.6 N) was significantly higher than all other conditions (p < 0.001). Biomimetic scaffold augmentation did not compromise mechanical properties when compared against suture repair in terms of residual elongation after 500 cycles (scaffold: 5.05 ± 0.89 mm vs. repair: 4.78 ± 1.24 mm), ultimate failure load (137.1 ± 31.0 N vs. 124.4 ± 21.4 N), ultimate elongation (12.09 ± 5.89 mm vs. 10.14 ± 4.61 mm), and stiffness (20.8 ± 3.6 vs. 18.4 ± 4.7 N/mm). CONCLUSIONS While multilayered scaffold sheets were successfully fabricated to mimic the ultrastructure and anisotropic tensile properties of native menisci, improvements in suture retention strength or adoption of superior surgical techniques will be needed to further enhance the mechanical strength of repairs of radial meniscal tears.