BACKGROUND: The mortality rate is very high for patients with severe multiple trauma with massive pulmonary contusion containing intrapulmonary hemorrhage. Multiple treatment modalities are needed not only for a prevention of cardiac arrest and quick hemostasis against multiple injuries, but also for recovery of oxygenation to save the patient’s life. CASE PRESENTATION: A 48-year-old Japanese woman fell down stairs that had a height of approximately 4 m. An X-ray showed pneumothorax, pulmonary contusion in her right lung, and an unstable pelvic fracture. A chest drain was inserted and preperitoneal pelvic packing was performed to control bleeding, performing resuscitative endovascular balloon occlusion of the aorta. A computed tomography scan revealed massive lung contusion in the lower lobe of her right lung, pelvic fractures, and multiple fractures and hematoma in other areas. An emergency thoracotomy was performed, and then we performed wide wedge resection of the injured lung, clamping proximal to suture lines with two Satinsky blood vessel clamps. The vessel clamps were left in the right thoracic cavity. The other hemorrhagic areas were embolized by transcatheter arterial embolization. However, since her respiratory functions deteriorated in the intensive care unit, veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was used for lung assist. Planned reoperation under veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was performed on day 2. Since her respiratory condition improved gradually, the veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation circuit was withdrawn on day 7. She was transferred to the psychiatric ward of our hospital on day 75. CONCLUSION: Utilizing multiple treatment modalities such as resuscitative endovascular balloon occlusion of the aorta, damage control surgery, transcatheter arterial embolization, and veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation with appropriate timing saves a patient with severe polytrauma with massive pulmonary contusion including intrapulmonary hemorrhage.