COVID-19, caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has rapidly spread throughout the world with unprecedented global healthcare and socio-economic consequences. There is now an established secondary syndrome of COVID-19 characterised by thrombosis, vascular dysfunction and hypertension, seen in those most severely affected. Advancing age in adults is the single most significant risk factor for hospitalisation and death with COVID-19. In light of the cardiovascular/thrombotic sequalae associated with severe COVID-19 disease and the overwhelming risk that increased age carries, in this study, our aim was to obtain mechanistic insight by interrogating gene expression profiles in cardiovascular tissues and cells. Our focus was on the two putative receptors for SARS-CoV-2, ACE2 and BSG along with a selected range of genes thought to be involved in virus binding/processing. In this study we have made four important observations: (i)Cardiovascular tissues and/or endothelial cells express the required genes for SARS-CoV-2 infection, (ii) SASR-CoV-2 receptor pathways, ACE2/TMPRSS2 and BSG/PPIB(A) polarise to lung/epithelium and vessel/endothelium respectively, (iii) expression of SARS-CoV-2 host genes are, on the whole, relatively stable with age and (iv) notable exceptions were ACE2 which decreases with age in some tissues and BSG which increases with age in endothelial cells. Our data support the idea that that BSG is the dominate pathway utilised by SARS-CoV-2 in endothelial cells and are the first to demonstrate a positive correlation with age. We suggest BSG expression in the vasculature is a critical driver which explains the heightened risk of severe disease and death observed in those >40 years of age. Since BSG is utilised by other pathogens our findings have implications beyond the current pandemic. Finally, because BSG is functions in a range of cardiovascular diseases and fibrosis, our observations may have relevance to our understanding of the diseases associated with aging.