Bioaerosols are recognized as one of the main transmission routes for infectious diseases and are responsible for other various types of health effects through inhalation and potential ingestion. Associating exposure with bioaerosol and health problems is challenging, and adequate exposure monitoring is a top priority for aerosol scientists. The multiple factors affecting bioaerosol content, the variability in the focus of each bioaerosol exposure study, and the variations in experimental design and the standardization of methods make bioaerosol exposure studies very difficult. Therefore, the health impacts of bioaerosol exposure are still poorly understood. This paper presents a brief description of a state-of-the-art development in bioaerosol exposure studies supported by studies on several related subjects. The main objective of this paper is to propose new considerations for bioaerosol exposure guidelines and the development of tools and study designs to better interpret bioaerosol data. The principal observations and findings are the discrepancy of the applicable methods in bioaerosol studies that makes result comparison impossible. Furthermore, the silo mentality helps in creating a bigger gap in the knowledge accumulated about bioaerosol exposure. Innovative and original ideas are presented for aerosol scientists and health scientists to consider and discuss. Although many examples cited herein are from occupational exposure, the discussion has relevance to any human environment. This work gives concrete suggestions for how to design a full bioaerosol study that includes all of the key elements necessary to help understand the real impacts of bioaerosol exposure in the short term. The creation of the proposed bioaerosol public database could give crucial information to control the public health. Implications: How can we move toward a bioaerosol exposure guidelines? The creation of the bioaerosol public database will help accumulate information for long-term association studies and help determine specific exposure biomarkers to bioaerosols. The implementation of such work will lead to a deeper understanding and more efficient utilization of bioaerosol studies to prevent public health hazards.