In vivo and in vitro mononuclear phagocytic system functions, expression of lymphocyte subset cell surface markers in the thymus and bursa of Fabricius, and lymphocyte subset dynamics during the course of poult enteritis and mortality syndrome (PEMS) were examined. PEMS is an acute, transmissible, infectious intestinal disease accompanied by high mortality and morbidity. The etiology of this multifactorial disease remains to be elucidated; however, turkey coronavirus was initially assumed to be one of the primary agents involved. Further investigation demonstrated that turkey coronavirus was not always detectable in poults exhibiting PEMS symptoms, and, thus, PEMS poults began to be identified as positive or negative for turkey coronavirus. In each trial, uninfected hatchmate controls were compared with turkey poults that were contact exposed to PEMS poults at 7 days of age. Following intravenous inoculation, control poults cleared Escherichia coli from their circulation by 60 min, whereas viable E. coli were still present in the circulation of PEMS poults at 60 min postinoculation. Inflammatory response measured by Sephadex-elicited abdominal exudate cell recruitment and the adherence potential of abdominal exudate cells was not significantly different between uninfected and PEMS poults. The percentage of glass-adherent abdominal exudate macrophages was higher in PEMS poults. However, the ability of these macrophages to phagocytize sheep red blood cells and the average number of sheep red blood cells per phagocytic macrophage were both lower compared with uninfected controls. CD4+ expression in thymic tissue of PEMS poults at 9 days postinfection was significantly lower. The CD4+:CD8+ lymphocyte ratio in peripheral blood leukocytes from coronavirus-negative PEMS poults was lower than that from both uninfected and coronavirus-positive PEMS poults at 14 days postinfection. In the spleen, the CD4+:CD8+ lymphocyte ratio was higher in coronavirus-positive PEMS poults as compared with the other treatments. In conclusion, immune system dysfunction in PEMS is associated with impaired mononuclear phagocytic system function and alterations in lymphocyte populations.