IMPORTANCE This study evaluates the postoperative outcomes achieved with incisionless otoplasty for the correction of prominauris. OBJECTIVE To determine whether incisionless otoplasty is a reliable and replicable technique in correcting prominauris. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS This study consisted of a retrospective electronic medical record review for 72 patients undergoing incisionless otoplasty for the correction of prominauris by a single surgeon from November 2006 to April 2013. Follow-up ranged from 1 to 87 months. The patients were operated on at both St Joseph's Health Centre (a community hospital) and The Cumberland Clinic (private practice) in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. All patients undergoing an incisionless otoplasty for the correction of prominauris were eligible. Participants' ages ranged from 3 to 55 years, with the majority being adults. Seventy patients were followed up for outcomes. INTERVENTIONS Incisionless otoplasty. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Number and type of sutures used, perioperative complications, and postoperative follow-up including complications and revisions. Complications included infection, hematoma, bleeding, perichondritis, suture granuloma, suture exposure, and suture failure. RESULTS A mean (SD) 2.5 (0.8) sutures were used in the left ear, 2.48 (0.75) in the right ear, and 4.69 (1.75) in total. The number of sutures used in the left vs right ear was not significantly different (P = .60). All patients had horizontal mattress sutures placed for correction of prominauris. There were no serious perioperative complications such as infection, bleeding, hematoma, perichondritis, or cartilage necrosis. Follow-up data were extracted and analyzed in 70 patients, with a mean follow-up time of 31 months. Complications were seen in 10 patients (14%): 4 were due to suture failure, 3 were due to suture exposure, 2 were due to granuloma formation, and 1 was due to a Polysporin (bacitracin zinc/polymyxin B sulfate) reaction. Nine patients (13%) needed a revision to achieve a desirable result. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE The technique of incisionless otoplasty used in this study was well tolerated and effective in both pediatric and adult patients, producing favorable outcomes with minimal complications. This procedure is less invasive than its open counterpart and seems at least equally effective in longevity.