BACKGROUND: The impact of coronavirus disease 2019 on pregnant women is incompletely understood, but early data from case series suggest a variable course of illness from asymptomatic or mild disease to maternal death. It is unclear whether pregnant women manifest enhanced disease similar to influenza viral infection or whether specific risk factors might predispose to severe disease. OBJECTIVE: To describe maternal disease and obstetrical outcomes associated with coronavirus disease 2019 in pregnancy to rapidly inform clinical care. STUDY DESIGN: This is a retrospective study of pregnant patients with a laboratory-confirmed severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infection from 6 hospital systems in Washington State between Jan. 21, 2020, and April 17, 2020. Demographics, medical and obstetrical history, and coronavirus disease 2019 encounter data were abstracted from medical records. RESULTS: A total of 46 pregnant patients with a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infection were identified from hospital systems capturing 40% of births in Washington State. Nearly all pregnant individuals with a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infection were symptomatic (93.5%, n=43) and the majority were in their second or third trimester (43.5% [n=20] and 50.0% [n=23], respectively). Symptoms resolved in a median of 24 days (interquartile range, 13-37). Notably, 7 women were hospitalized (16%) including 1 admitted to the intensive care unit. A total of 6 cases (15%) were categorized as severe coronavirus disease 2019 with nearly all patients being either overweight or obese before pregnancy or with asthma or other comorbidities. Of the 8 deliveries that occurred during the study period, there was 1 preterm birth at 33 weeks' gestation to improve pulmonary status in a woman with class III obesity, and 1 stillbirth of unknown etiology. CONCLUSION: Severe coronavirus disease 2019 developed in approximately 15% of pregnant patients and occurred primarily in overweight or obese women with underlying conditions. Obesity and coronavirus disease 2019 may synergistically increase risk for a medically indicated preterm birth to improve maternal pulmonary status in late pregnancy. These findings support categorizing pregnant patients as a higher-risk group, particularly those with chronic comorbidities.