BACKGROUND Choledochal cyst (CDC) is a rare biliary disorder. Surgical treatment consists of CDC excision and biliary-enteric reconstruction. Recently, some institutions have reported successful CDC excision by using minimally invasive techniques. In this study, we report our experience with the laparoscopic management of CDC, with a focus on key operative maneuvers that enhance the likelihood of successful excision. METHODS Following institutional review board approval, we performed a retrospective review of patients who underwent the laparoscopic excision of CDC and Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy. Between October 2003 and November 2007, we performed laparoscopic CDC excision in 9 patients (8 female and 1 male). Median age was 4 years (range, 8 months to 16 years). There were 7 type I and 2 type IV cysts, according to Todani's classification. Average cyst size was 4.4 cm (range, 1.3-8.5). The procedures were performed by utilizing four or five trochars. RESULTS Six of 9 children presented with preoperative pancreatitis, 1 with abdominal pain, 1 with jaundice, and 1 was found incidentally. Three patients required the conversion to laparotomy due to dense adhesions, secondary to pancreatitis. Six patients underwent successful laparoscopic procedures, 5 had complete cyst excisions, and 1 underwent a proximal excision with distal mucosectomy. Of the 3 patients who required conversion, 2 underwent complete excisions; the other underwent a proximal excision, distal mucosectomy. There were no intraoperative complications. One patient had a postoperative bile leak that required an open hepaticojejunostomy revision. Eight patients had an uneventful recovery. Oral feedings were resumed within an average of 3.4 days (range, 2-9). Average time to discharge was 6.1 days (range, 5-12). Average follow-up time was 18 months (range, 4-48). No further laboratory abnormalities were detected in any of the patients. CONCLUSIONS Laparoscopic resection of CDC and Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy in children is an excellent treatment option. Preoperative pancreatitis may cause increased technical difficulty, necessitating a conversion. Proximal excision with distal mucosectomy