UNLABELLED For the last seventeen years laparoscopic cholecystectomy has remained the gold standard procedure for gallbladder surgery The single incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) approach is a step toward less invasive surgery and the intraumbilical access improves the cosmetic effect (no scar surgery). The aim of the study was to present our preliminary experience in laparoscopic cholecystectomy through single intraumbilical incision. MATERIAL AND METHODS Three patients with gallbladder symptoms (2 female, 1 male) underwent surgery through single intraumbilical incision. In two cases the procedure was performed with three 5 mm Dexide port approach and in one, with a flexible rubber/gel SILSTM-Port (Covidien, USA) access. A simple 5 mm optics was employed. In two procedures the following disposable instruments were used: roticulator Endo dissect, roticulator Endo grasp, mini Sears scissors as well as standard hook and clips while for the third procedure, a conventional multi-use grasp and roticular Endo dissect. The gallbladder was elevated to the integuments by two sutures to expose Calot's triangle and bladder site. Following exposure, the bile duct and the vesical artery were clipsed and cut routinely to remove the gallbladder in a plastic bag through the bell-button. After procedures no drains were left in the peritoneal cavities. RESULTS In all three cases the laparoscopic procedure was performed. The median operative time was 88 min. In one female patient, bleeding into the peritoneal cavity was reported and called for laparotomy within a few hours of laparoscopic procedure. Intraoperatively, the branch of vesical artery was sutured to arrest bleeding. The median hospital stay following procedure was 3, 8 and 5 days respectively. After the procedure, the last female patient was observed to have pharyngitis and enlarged jugular lymph nodes that abated after antibiotic therapy. CONCLUSIONS Single-incision laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed by experienced laparoscopic surgeons. For adequate evaluation of the efficacy and safety of this procedure it is necessary to perform further clinical studies on a larger number of patients.