INTRODUCTION: The Pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 has put a strain on the most of health systems all over the world. Many hospitals had to re-organize to deal with the emergency, so that the non-core activities have been suspended or cancelled, raising management problems. The aim of this multicentre study is to report the epidemiological orthopaedic and traumatological data between COVID and pre-COVID era and to analyse patients’ needs and their management. METHODS: We reported and compared traumatological and elective orthopaedic surgeries performed in three of the main hospital centres in Tuscany during COVID (March 2020) and pre-COVID (March 2019) era. We also reported the epidemiological data about the number of orthopaedic first aid visits at the main hub, analysing the main differences. For each centre, we reported the number, diagnosis, co-morbidities, treatment, hospital course, complications and outcomes of confirmed COVID 19 patients. We also indicated what kind of PPE were used by medical staff and patients at any visit. RESULTS: The scheduled surgery drastically decreased in all the centres and the most of procedures were carried out for tumours, infections and implant mobilizations during the COVID time, delaying all the other ones. Trauma activities slightly decreased between the two time points: proximal femur fractures continued to engage our hospitals at the same pre-COVID volumes, while minor traumas drastically decreased. We report a decrease of 70.95% in orthopaedic first aid, with first-aid-visits/hospitalization ratio of 14.3 in the pre-COVID time vs 6.3 in the COVID time. A total of 5 confirmed COVID patients were treated for fractures and 4 of them healed without complications. We report just one case of death among COVID patients. All the medical staff members have worn the PPE and no one have developed COVID symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: The COVID-19 raised many important issues, such as the optimal management of patients requiring the treatment of conventional diseases during a pandemic. The flow of patients changes from one area to another during a pandemic and an integrated approach within the same geographical area could be useful to better allocate resources and manage the patients’ needs. The preventive measures put in place in our country seem to work, but this first experience with COVID-19 crisis highlighted the chronic problems of our health system and we believe that we have to “learn the lesson” to be better prepared in the future.