Introduction: Point-of-care ultrasound (POCUS) has the potential to transform healthcare delivery in the era of COVID-19 with its diagnostic and therapeutic expediency. It can be performed by clinicians already at the bedside, which permits an immediate and augmented assessment of a patient. Although lung ultrasound can be used to accurately diagnose a variety of disease states such as pneumothorax, pleural effusions, pneumonia and interstitial lung disease2, there are limited reports on the sonographic manifestations of COVID-19. There is an urgent need to identify alternative diagnostic modalities that can be immediately employed at the bedside of COVID-19 patients. Methods: This study was conducted at two medical centers in the United States from 3/21/2020-6/01/2020. Any adult who was hospitalized with COVID-19 (based on symptomatology and a confirmatory RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2) and received a pulmonary POCUS examination was included. Providers were instructed to use a 12-zone scanning protocol for pulmonary views and save 6 second clips of each lung zone. This study utilized several POCUS devices, including Butterfly IQ, Vave, Lumify, and Sonosite. The collected images were interpreted by the study researchers based on a consensus document developed by the study authors and previously accepted definitions of lung POCUS findings. Results: A total of 22 eligible patients who received 36 lung scans were included in our study. Eleven (50%) patients experienced clinical deterioration (defined as either ICU admission, invasive mechanical ventilation, or death within 28 days from the initial symptom onset). Among the 36 lung scans collected, only 3 (8%) were classified as normal. The remaining scans had the following abnormalities: presence of B-lines (n=32, 89%), consolidations (n=20, 56%), pleural thickening (n=17, 47%), and pleural effusion (n=4, 11%). Out of 20 scans with consolidations, 14 (70%) were subpleural and 5 (25%) were translobar. A-lines were present in 26 (72%) of patients, although they were only observed in the majority of the collected lung zones in 5 (14%) of patients. Ultrasound findings were stratified by time from symptom onset to the scan based on the following time periods: early (0-6 days), middle (7-13 days), and late (14-28 days). B-lines appeared early after symptom onset and persisted well into the late disease course. In contrast, pleural thickening increased in frequency over time (early: 25%, middle: 47%, late: 67%). Subpleural consolidations also appeared in higher frequency later in the disease course (early: 13%, middle 42%, late: 56%). Discussion: certain lung ultrasound findings may be common in Covid-19, while others may appear later in the disease course or only occur in patients who experience clinical deterioration. Future efforts should investigate the predictive utility of consolidations, pleural thickening and B-lines for clinical deterioration and compare them to traditional radiological studies such as X-rays or CTs.