BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES To compare our initial experience in laparoscopic surgery for ovarian endometriomas performed through an umbilical incision using a single 3-channel port and flexible laparoscopic instrumentation versus traditional laparoscopy. METHODS This study was conducted in 3 tertiary care referral centers. Since September 2009, we have performed laparoendoscopic single-site surgery in 24 patients diagnosed with ovarian endometriomas. A control group of patients with similar diagnoses who underwent traditional operative laparoscopy during the same period was included (n = 28). In the laparoendoscopic single-site surgery group, a multichannel port was inserted into the peritoneum through a 1.5- to 2.0-cm umbilical incision. RESULTS Patients in the laparoendoscopic single-site surgery group were significantly older (P = .04) and had a higher body mass index (P = .005). Both groups were comparable regarding history of abdominal surgery, lateral pelvic side wall involvement, and cul-de-sac involvement. After we controlled for age and body mass index, the size of the resected endometriomas, duration of surgery, and amount of operative blood loss were comparable in both groups. When required, an additional 5-mm port was inserted in the right or left lower quadrant in the laparoendoscopic single-site surgery group to allow the use of a third instrument for additional tissue retraction or manipulation (10 of 24 patients, 41.6%). However, adhesiolysis was performed more frequently in the conventional laparoscopy group. The duration of hospital stay was <24 hours in both groups. No intraoperative complications were encountered. All incisions healed and were cosmetically satisfactory. CONCLUSION The laparoendoscopic single-site surgery technique is a reasonable initial approach for the treatment of endometriomas. In our experience, an additional side port is usually needed to treat pelvic side wall and cul-de-sac endometriosis that often accompanies endometriomas.