Oocyte in vitro maturation (IVM) is the first step of the in vitro reproductive technologies that enables mature oocytes to be generated ex vivo and after used for embryo production. In this sense, the establishment of culture environment, as oocyte incubation time, is essential for the success of the IVM. Therefore, the study was carried out to investigate the relationship between the meiotic potential and the IVM times of collared peccary oocytes, wild mammals of great commercial and ecological interest. Thus, ovaries were collected of females derived from captivity and transported to the laboratory within 1 hour of slaughtering. The oocytes derived from follicles (3-6mm in diameter) were recovered by aspirated and sliced. Good quality oocytes (evenly granulated cytoplasm with a least one layer of surrounding cumulus cells) were selected and subjected to culture in TCM 199 supplemented with 10µg/mL FSH, 10% FBS and 100µM cysteamine at 38.5°C, 5% CO2 and maximum humidity for 24 or 48 hours. After the incubation period, the nuclear status, the presence of first polar body and the expansion of cumulus cells of oocytes were assessed. The data obtained were analyzed by Fisher exact test (P<0.05). A total of four sessions (2-3 females per session) were performed, resulting in eighteen aspirated and sliced ovaries with normal morphological characteristics. An oocyte recovery rate of about 83.1% (59/71) was obtained with 3.3 oocytes/ovary and 2.3 viable oocytes/ovary. After different incubation times, differences (P<0.05) were observed in 24 and 48 hours for expansion of the cumulus cells (38.1% vs. 100%), presence of first polar body (52.4% vs. 90.5%) and nuclear status in second metaphase (19.0% vs. 76.2%), respectively. In conclusion, 48 hours is suitable time for the in vitro maturation of oocytes derived from collared peccaries when compared to the time of 24 hours, according to the meiotic potential observed. Additional studies should be conducted to improve the quality of the oocyte culture environment, as medium composition, aiming to obtain viable mature oocytes for other in vitro biotechnologies.(AU)