OBJECTIVES Lateral displacement and impaired cerebral autoregulation are associated with worse outcomes following acute brain injury, but their effect on long-term clinical outcomes remains unclear. We assessed the relationship between lateral displacement, disturbances to cerebral autoregulation, and clinical outcomes in acutely comatose patients. DESIGN Retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data. SETTING Neurocritical care unit of the Johns Hopkins Hospital. PATIENTS Acutely comatose patients (Glasgow Coma Score ≤ 8). INTERVENTIONS None. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Cerebral oximetry index, derived from near-infrared spectroscopy multimodal monitoring, was used to evaluate cerebral autoregulation. Associations between lateral brain displacement, global cerebral autoregulation, and interhemispheric cerebral autoregulation asymmetry were assessed using mixed random effects models with random intercept. Patients were grouped by functional outcome, determined by the modified Rankin Scale. Associations between outcome group, lateral displacement, and cerebral oximetry index were assessed using multivariate linear regression. Increasing lateral brain displacement was associated with worsening global cerebral autoregulation (p = 0.01 septum; p = 0.05 pineal) and cerebral autoregulation asymmetry (both p < 0.001). Maximum lateral displacement during the first 3 days of coma was significantly different between functional outcome groups at hospital discharge (p = 0.019 pineal; p = 0.008 septum), 3 months (p = 0.026; p = 0.007), 6 months (p = 0.018; p = 0.010), and 12 months (p = 0.022; p = 0.012). Global cerebral oximetry index was associated with functional outcomes at 3 months (p = 0.019) and 6 months (p = 0.013). CONCLUSIONS During the first 3 days of acute coma, increasing lateral brain displacement is associated with worsening global cerebral autoregulation and cerebral autoregulation asymmetry, and poor long-term clinical outcomes in acutely comatose patients. The impact of acute interventions on outcome needs to be explored.