BACKGROUND: The judicialization of medicine can lead to professional disenchantment and defensive attitudes among surgeons. Some quantitative studies have investigated this topic in spine surgery, but none has provided direct thematic feedback from physicians. This qualitative study aimed to identify the impact of this phenomenon in the practice of spine neurosurgeons. METHODS: We proposed a qualitative study using grounded theory approach. Twenty-three purposively selected private neurosurgeons participated. Inclusion took place until data saturation was reached. Data were collected through individual interviews and analyzed thematically and independently by three researchers (an anthropologist, a psychiatrist, and a neurosurgeon). RESULTS: Data analysis identified five superordinate themes that were based on items that recurred in interviews: (1) private practice of spinal surgery (high-risk surgery based on frequent functional symptoms, in an unfavorable medicolegal context); (2) societal transformation of the doctor-patient relationship (new societal demands, impact of the internet and social network); (3) judicialization of spine surgery (surgeons’ feelings about the frequency and motivation of the complaints they receive, and their own management of them); (4) coping strategies (identification and solutions for “at risk” situations and patients); and (5) professional disenchantment (impact of these events on surgeons’ daily practice and career planning). Selected quotes of interviews were reported to support these findings. CONCLUSIONS: Our study highlights several elements that can alter the quality of care in a context of societal change and the judicialization of medicine. The alteration of the doctor-patient relationship and the permanent pressure of a possible complaint encourage surgeons to adopt defensive attitudes in order to minimize the risks of litigation and increased insurance premiums. These phenomena can affect the quality of care and the privacy of physicians to the extent that they may consider changing or interrupting their careers earlier. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s00701-020-04302-z) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.