BACKGROUND: Patients with severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have elevated levels of acute phase reactants and inflammatory cytokines, including interleukin-6, indicative of cytokine release syndrome (CRS). The interleukin-6 receptor inhibitor tocilizumab is used for the treatment of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy–induced CRS. METHODS: Patients aged 18 years or older with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 admitted to the Annunziata Hospital in Cosenza, Italy, through March 7, 2020, who received at least one dose of tocilizumab 162 mg subcutaneously for the treatment of COVID-19–related CRS in addition to standard care were included in this retrospective observational study. The primary observation was the incidence of grade 4 CRS after tocilizumab treatment. Chest computed tomography (CT) scans were evaluated to investigate lung manifestations. FINDINGS: Twelve patients were included; all had fever, cough, and fatigue at presentation, and all had at least one comorbidity (hypertension, six patients; diabetes, five patients; chronic obstructive lung disease, four patients). Seven patients received high-flow nasal cannula oxygen therapy and five received non-invasive mechanical ventilation for lung complications of COVID-19. No incidence of grade 4 CRS was observed within 1 week of tocilizumab administration in all 12 patients (100%) and within 2 days of tocilizumab administration in 5 patients (42%). The predominant pattern on chest CT scans at presentation was ground-glass opacity, air bronchograms, smooth or irregular interlobular or septal thickening, and thickening of the adjacent pleura. Follow-up CT scans 7 to 10 days after tocilizumab treatment showed improvement of lung manifestations in all patients. No adverse events or new safety concerns attributable to tocilizumab were reported. INTERPRETATION: Tocilizumab administered subcutaneously to patients with COVID-19 and CRS is a promising treatment for reduction in disease activity and improvement in lung function. The effect of tocilizumab should be confirmed in a randomised controlled trial.