Natural or manmade disasters, mass causality events, and other emergencies can disrupt healthcare delivery and change the demand for healthcare services. In order to protect patients, staff, and facilities it is essential that healthcare facilities be prepared for such emergency events. Ambulatory surgery centers (ASC) and Office Based Anesthesia (OBA) practices are unique healthcare settings that necessitate specific emergency planning since they typically do not have rapid response or code teams on site. In addition, they typically operate with fewer personnel and have staff members who often perform multiple functions. Previously there has been variability in the emergency preparedness amongst ASCs and OBA practices. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has recently identified three requirements for maintaining healthcare services during an emergency. These are 1) safeguarding human resources, 2) maintaining business operations, and 3) protecting physical resources. In 2016 CMS issued new rules establishing national emergency preparedness requirements for Medicare and Medicaid participating providers in the United States. In addition there are requirements specifically for ASCs and OBAs. The first step in emergency preparedness is performing a risk assessment for a practice using an “all-hazards” approach. In this approach, the practice attempts to identify all hazards that could potentially affect the practice as well as evaluating the likelihood of such hazards. This risk assessment is then incorporated into an emergency plan for the facility. In addition to reviewing specific components of an emergency plan for ASCs and OBAs, the need to test the plan and create a subsequent corrective action plan is reviewed. It is important that healthcare providers at all ambulatory surgery centers and office based anesthesia practices are aware of regulations for emergency preparedness and work to ensure that patients, staff and physical resources are protected during natural disasters and other emergencies.