KEY POINTS Threats to standing balance (postural threat) are known to facilitate soleus tendon-tap reflexes, yet the mechanisms driving reflex changes are unknown. Scaling of ramp-and-hold dorsiflexion stretch reflexes to stretch velocity and amplitude were examined as indirect measures of changes to muscle spindle dynamic and static function with height-induced postural threat. Overall, stretch reflexes were larger with threat. Furthermore, the slope (gain) of the stretch-velocity vs. short-latency reflex amplitude relationship was increased with threat. These findings are interpreted as indirect evidence for increased muscle spindle dynamic sensitivity, independent of changes in background muscle activity levels, with a threat to standing balance. We argue that context-dependent scaling of stretch reflexes forms part of a multisensory tuning process where acquisition and/or processing of balance-relevant sensory information is continuously primed to facilitate feedback control of standing balance in challenging balance scenarios. ABSTRACT Postural threat increases soleus tendon-tap (t-) reflexes. However, it is not known whether t-reflex changes are a result of central modulation, altered muscle spindle dynamic sensitivity or combined spindle static and dynamic sensitization. Ramp-and-hold dorsiflexion stretches of varying velocities and amplitudes were used to examine velocity- and amplitude-dependent scaling of short- (SLR) and medium-latency (MLR) stretch reflexes as an indirect indicator of spindle sensitivity. t-reflexes were also performed to replicate previous work. In the present study, we examined the effects of postural threat on SLR, MLR and t-reflex amplitude, as well as SLR-stretch velocity scaling. Forty young-healthy adults stood with one foot on a servo-controlled tilting platform and the other on a stable surface. The platform was positioned on a hydraulic lift. Threat was manipulated by having participants stand in low (height 1.1 m; away from edge) then high (height 3.5 m; at the edge) threat conditions. Soleus stretch reflexes were recorded with surface electromyography and SLRs and MLRs were probed with fixed-amplitude variable-velocity stretches. t-reflexes were evoked with Achilles tendon taps using a linear motor. SLR, MLR and t-reflexes were 11%, 9.5% and 16.9% larger, respectively, in the high compared to low threat condition. In 22 out of 40 participants, SLR amplitude was correlated to stretch velocity at both threat levels. In these participants, the gain of the SLR-velocity relationship was increased by 36.1% with high postural threat. These findings provide new supportive evidence for increased muscle spindle dynamic sensitivity with postural threat and provide further support for the context-dependent modulation of human somatosensory pathways.