BACKGROUND Robotic radical cystectomy (RC) for cancer is beginning to gain wider acceptance. Yet, the concomitant urinary diversion is typically performed extracorporeally at most centers, primarily because intracorporeal diversion is perceived as technically complex and arduous. Previous reports on robotic, intracorporeal, orthotopic neobladder may not have fully replicated established open principles of reservoir configuration, leading to concerns about long-term functional outcomes. OBJECTIVE To illustrate step-by-step our technique for robotic, intracorporeal, orthotopic, ileal neobladder, urinary diversion with strict adherence to open surgical tenets. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS From July 2010 to May 2012, 24 patients underwent robotic intracorporeal neobladder at a single tertiary cancer center. This report presents data on patients with a minimum of 3-mo follow-up (n=8). SURGICAL PROCEDURE We performed robotic RC, extended lymphadenectomy to the inferior mesenteric artery, and complete intracorporeal diversion. Our surgical technique is demonstrated in the accompanying video. OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Baseline demographics, pathology data, 90-d complications, and functional outcomes were assessed and compared with patients undergoing intracorporeal ileal conduit diversion (n=7). RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS Robotic intracorporeal urinary diversion was successfully performed in 15 patients (neobladder: 8 patients, ileal conduit: 7 patients) with a minimum 90-d follow-up. Median age and body mass index were 68 yr and 27 kg/m2, respectively. In the neobladder cohort, median estimated blood loss was 225 ml (range: 100-700 ml), median time to regular diet was 5 d (range: 4-10 d), median hospital stay was 8 d (range: 5-27 d), and 30- and 90-d complications were Clavien grade 1-2 (n=5 and 0), Clavien grade 3-5 (n=2 and 1), respectively. This study is limited by small sample size and short follow-up period. CONCLUSIONS An intracorporeal technique of robot-assisted orthotopic neobladder and ileal conduit is presented, wherein established open principles are diligently preserved. This step-wise approach is demonstrated to help shorten the learning curve of other surgeons contemplating robotic intracorporeal urinary diversion.