Background Serum retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4) plays a critical role in insulin resistance. The mechanism behind the impact of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) on glucose metabolism is unclear. Hence, we aimed to investigate the triangle relationship between the RBP4, glucose metabolism, and LSG in patients of Chinese ethnicity. Methods The study enrolled eighty-two obese patients. Glucose-lipid metabolic index, uric acid (UA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), free triiodothyronine (FT3), free thyroxin (FT4) and thyrotropin (TSH) were measured. RBP4 levels were detected by enzyme-link immunosorbent assay. 30 obese patients underwent LSG were studied. All these markers were measured again at a time interval of 3 and 6 months after surgery. Results (1) Circulating RBP4 levels were positively associated with body mass index(BMI), blood glucose in 0 min (BG0), BG30, BG120, BG180, fasting inulin(FINS), fasting C peptide(FCP), homeostasis model of assessment for insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR), SOD, TSH and negatively associated with Matsuda index in obesity with a significant difference (P < 0.05). RBP4 levels in the patients with impaired fasting glucose (IFG), insulin resistance or hyperinsulinemia were significantly higher than the patients without IFG, insulin resistance or hyperinsulinemia (P = 0.035, P = 0.001, and P = 0.007). (2) LSG resulted in significantly decreased FBG, FINS, FCP and HOMA-IR at 3, 6 months after surgery (all P < 0.05). The RBP4 levels were significantly decreased after surgery (all P < 0.05) with no gender difference. (3) The change in RBP4 levels was significantly associated with the change in FINS, FCP, HOMA-IR, and HOMA-β at 6 months and the change in TSH at 3 months after surgery in males (all P < 0.05). The change in RBP4 levels were significantly associated with the change in FINS, FCP, HOMA-IR, HOMA-β, and TCH at 3 months after surgery in females (all P < 0.05). Conclusions Overall, our results interpret the significant correlations between RBP4, glucose-lipid metabolism, oxidative stress and thyroid function in obese patients. Further, the LSG brings a decline in RBP4 levels and that may contribute partly to the improved insulin resistance in obese Chinese patients.