Although viral infections are often invoked as environmental factors in the aetiology and pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) it is only recently that a specific, indirect, cytokine-mediated mechanism for triggering of relapses during viral infections has been demonstrated. It is not yet clear however whether this indirect mechanism can account for all reported viral associations with the aetiopathogenesis of MS. A direct causal role of central nervous system (CNS) viral infection in MS has largely been discounted following repeated failures to demonstrate virus within the oligodendrocyte-myelin unit. In the light of increasing evidence of blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction in MS and to further explore the issue of possible viral involvement in MS, an ultrastructural search for viruses was undertaken in the CNS microvasculature, in autopsy and biopsy tissue from human CNS primary demyelinating diseases, including MS (20 cases), idiopathic monophasic CNS demyelinating disease (Mdemy, four cases) and metabolic or immunopathological demyelinating disease (two cases). For comparison, tissues from CNS viral disease in which demyelination is a major feature (nine cases) were examined in the same way. Control CNS tissues (nine cases) from a range of other neurological and non-neurological diseases were also examined. Outside the MS and Mdemy groups, morphological evidence of virus associations with the BBB were found only in the acute and subacute viral encephalitides (three cases subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, one case of Herpes encephalitis) and in one case of disseminated Cytomegalovirus infection. In a small proportion of MS and Mdemy cases, particles resembling either adenovirus (one case of MS) or paramyxovirus (one case of MS, one case of Mdemy) were found in the vicinity of microvessels. In each case a different cell type or extracellular compartment was involved and an exact correlation between the virus particles and the demyelinating lesions could not be demonstrated. Furthermore, corroborative clinical or laboratory evidence of current CNS infection in these primary demyelinating disease cases was available only from the single positive Mdemy case and not from the two cases of MS. This and other previously published evidence from MS (which implicated a Coronavirus) and other diseases highlights the potential vulnerability to viral infection of cells associated with the BBB. Furthermore it is concluded that the detection rate of such infections in pathological tissue could underestimate their true frequency. A possible role of transient virus-BBB interactions in triggering focal inflammation, BBB breakdown and demyelination in some cases of MS and parainfectious demyelinating disease cannot be discounted.