BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Every year ∼20 million inguinal hernia repairs are completed worldwide. Increased patient access to medical information and education has elicited interest in minimally invasive surgical techniques that obtain improved surgical outcomes and cosmesis. Because of these factors, there is a growing interest in single-incision surgery. Laparoscopic totally extraperitoneal (TEP) single-incision hernia repair technique has been reported with different meshes used in a tack fixation system. Recently, self-fixating mesh technology has offered the possibility of avoiding tack fixation and potentially avoiding chronic postoperative pain. Self-fixating mesh technology employs monofilament polylactic acid (PLA) creating a microgrip system that provides self-adherence of the mesh to adjacent tissue. This tack-free fixation system provides coverage over the entire myopectineal orifice and surrounding areas where traditional tacks cannot be placed. Self-fixating mesh has also been safely applied in laparoscopic TEP procedures, but this mesh has not been described in single site TEP surgery; possibly because of the potential difficulty with mesh deployment. We sought to determine the technical feasibility of a single-site laparoscopic TEP repair of inguinal hernias and to discuss our techniques and patient short-term outcomes. METHODS Review of a prospectively maintained database of patients who received single-site laparoscopic TEP herniorrhaphy from August 2012 through August 2015. Patient characteristics and demographics and perioperative and postoperative data were analyzed. RESULTS Thirty-four patients (aged 55.2 ±14.2; 17.6% women) with a mean body mass index of 26.2 ± 3.9 were analyzed. Mean operative time was 99.5 ± 30.5 minutes, 41.2% were left-side repairs, and 50% were bilateral. Estimated blood loss was 18.4 ± 14.1 mL. Recurrent hernias accounted for 14.7% of cases; 32.4% of cases were combination surgeries, most commonly a concurrent umbilical hernia repair. The most common short-term postoperative complication was urinary retention (4 patients). The median length of follow-up was 25 days (IQR 18.75-61.75). Complications occurring at >30 days included hydrocele (2 patients) and stitch abscess (1 patient). Eight (23.5%) patients had complications (surgical or during follow-up). No recurrences or deaths were reported. CONCLUSIONS With comparable operative times, perioperative outcomes, and safety profile, SS-TEP appears to be a safe and effective surgical approach for the management of inguinal hernias in the short term. Furthermore, SS-TEP with a self-fixating mesh is a feasible approach.