The COVID-19 pandemic originated in Wuhan, China on December 31st and spread into international borders, leading to a public health crisis and complete shutdown of countries. The strict quarantine measures taken by governments kept a large number of people, around the world, in isolation and affected many aspects of people's lives. These unprecedented changes triggered a wide variety of psychological problems ranging from panic disorders, anxiety and depression. In this study, we aim to explore anxiety levels among parents, teachers and the general community amid the COVID-19 pandemic in the UAE, as well as identify emotional and anxiety disorders in children. Using a web-based cross-sectional survey we collected data from 2,200 self-selected assessed volunteers. Demographic information, knowledge and beliefs about COVID-19, generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) using the (GAD-7) scale , emotional problems in children using the strengths and difficulties questionnaire (SDQ), worry and fear about COVID-19, coping mechanisms and general health information were collected. The overall prevalence of GAD in the general population was 71% with younger people (59.8%) and females (51.7%) reporting the highest levels of anxiety. Parents who were teachers reported the highest percentage of emotional problems in children (26.7%) compared to parents only (14.6%) or teachers only (4.7%). Multivariate logistic regression for GAD-7 score showed that females, participants who felt public fear was justifiable, persons who worried about COVID-19, persons who intended to take the COVID-19 vaccine and smokers were all associated with anxiety. Multivariate logistic regression for SDQ showed parents who had severe anxiety levels were 7 times more likely to report more emotional problems in their children (OR=7.00, 95% CI, 3.45 to 14.0) than less anxious parents. Findings suggest the urgency of policy makers to develop effective screening and coping strategies for parents and teachers and more specifically for vulnerable children.