In Tanzania, Unprecedented measures have been adopted to control the rapid spread of the ongoing COVID-19 epidemic. Residents adherence to control measures is affected by their knowledge, attitudes, and practices (KAP) towards COVID-19. In this study, we investigated Tanzanian residents KAP towards COVID-19 during the rapid rise period of the outbreak.This was a cross sectional study that involved sample of online Tanzanian residents who was recruited via authors networks with residents and social media. A self-developed online KAP questionnaire using Survey Monkey tool was used to collect data from participants. The questionnaire assessed demographic and had 12 questions on COVID Knowledge and 5 questions on attitude and practice. Descriptive and inferential analysis was carried out using SPSS 17.Four hundred residents completed a survey. The mean age of study participants was 28 years, and majorities were females 216 (54.0%). There were no significant different in relation to demographic variables (p>0.3). Those who held a bachelor degree or above (60.3%) had more correct score. The overall, (84.4%) of participants had good knowledge level and the good knowledge was associated with education level (p=0.001). Nearly all of the participants (96.0%) had confidence that Tanzania can win the battle against COVID-19. The majority of the respondents (77%) did not do to the crowded place in recent says. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that male gender, age-group of 16-29 years and education of secondary or lower were significantly associated with lower knowledge score.Our findings suggest that residents of a relatively high level of socioeconomic status, have had good knowledge, optimistic attitudes, and appropriate practices towards COVID-19 during the rapid rise period of the COVID-19 outbreak. Suggesting that health education programs aimed at improving COVID-19 knowledge are helpful for encouraging an optimistic attitudes and maintaining safe practices. Due to the limitation in representativeness of the sample, more studies are warranted to investigate the KAP towards COVID-19 among Tanzania residents of a low socioeconomic status.