PURPOSE Speech-language pathologists may introduce augmentative or alternative communication (AAC) systems to people who are unable to use speech for everyday communication. Despite the benefits of AAC systems, they are significantly underutilized by the people with complex communication needs. The current review aimed to synthesize the barriers and facilitators to the provision and use of low-tech and unaided AAC systems. Materials and methods: Relevant literature was identified via a systematic search strategy. Included articles (n = 43) were evaluated using the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme. Qualitative framework analysis was then completed with reference to the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF). Results and conclusion: Most barriers and facilitators were coded as contextual factors within the ICF. Of most prominence were environmental factors, including attitudes of and supports provided by professionals, family members, and the society at large. Themes were also identified which related to the personal factors, including the user's own attitude, socioeconomic status, and culture. Beyond these contextual factors, the remaining codes related to body functions such as cognition and movement. There are numerous barriers to the provision and use of low-tech and unaided AAC systems, which may contribute to the inadequate use of these systems by people with complex communication needs. Suggestions for reducing these barriers are presented with regards to the person with complex communication needs, their family, and the professionals involved in their care. Implications for Rehabilitation AAC systems can reduce participation restrictions for people with complex communication needs. The provision and use of AAC systems is influenced by environmental factors, personal factors, and features of a person's body function. SLPs may need to collaborate with a large multidisciplinary team to successfully introduce AAC systems. SLP, teaching, and nursing students require theoretical and practical experience in AAC throughout their training to enable the provision and use of these systems.