BACKGROUND Single-port laparoscopy remains a novel technique in the field of colorectal surgery. Several small series have examined its safety for colon resection. OBJECTIVE Our aim was to analyze our entire experience and short-term outcomes with single-port laparoscopic right hemicolectomy since its introduction at our institution. We assert that this approach is feasible and safe for the wide array of patients and indications encountered by a colorectal surgeon. DESIGN This is a retrospective analysis of prospectively gathered data for all patients who underwent single-port laparoscopic right hemicolectomy with the use of standard laparoscopic instrumentation, for malignant or benign disease, between July 2009 and November 2010 in a high-volume, academic, colorectal surgery practice. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Demographic, clinical, operative, and pathologic factors were reviewed and analyzed. All conversions to conventional laparoscopic or open operations were considered in this analysis. RESULTS One hundred patients underwent single-port laparoscopic right hemicolectomy during the study period. Mean age was 63 years, and 61% of the patients were men. Forty-three percent had undergone previous abdominal surgery, and the median body mass index was 26 (range, 18-46). Median ASA classification was 3 (range, 1-4). Five percent of the operations were performed urgently, and 56% were performed for carcinoma, of which half were T3 or T4 tumor stage. Median operative duration was 105 (range, 64-270) minutes. Mean and median blood loss was 106 and 50 mL. Two percent required conversion to multiport laparoscopy, and 4% converted to the open approach. Median postoperative stay was 4 (range, 2-48) days. Median lymph node number was 18 (range, 11-42). There was one mortality in this series. Morbidity, including wound infection, was 13%. CONCLUSIONS This represents the largest experience with single-port laparoscopic right hemicolectomy to date. This technique was used with acceptable morbidity and mortality and without compromise of conventional oncologic parameters by colorectal surgeons experienced in minimally invasive technique. These findings support the use of a single-port approach for patients requiring right hemicolectomy.