BACKGROUND Residency programs struggle with integrating simulation training into curricula, despite evidence that simulation leads to improved operating room performance and patient outcomes. Currently, there is no standardized laparoscopic training program available for gynecology residents. OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to develop and validate a comprehensive ex vivo training curriculum for gynecologic laparoscopy. STUDY DESIGN In a prospective, single-blinded randomized controlled trial (Canadian Task Force Classification I) postgraduate year 1 and 2 gynecology residents were allocated randomly to receive either conventional residency training or an evidence-based laparoscopy curriculum. The 7-week curriculum consisted of cognitive didactic and interactive sessions, low-fidelity box trainer and high-fidelity virtual reality simulator technical skills, and high-fidelity team simulation. The primary outcome measure was the technical procedure score at laparoscopic salpingectomy with the use of the objective structured assessment of laparoscopic salpingectomy tool. Secondary outcome measures related to performance in multiple-choice questions and technical performance at box trainer and virtual reality simulator tasks. A sample size of 10 residents per group was planned (n = 20). Results are reported as medians (interquartile ranges), and data were compared between groups with the Mann-Whitney U, chi-square, and Fisher's exact tests (P ≤ .05). RESULTS In July 2013, 27 residents were assigned randomly (14 curriculum, 13 conventional). Both groups were similar at baseline. Twenty-one residents (10 curriculum, 11 conventional) completed the surgical procedure-based assessment in the operating room (September to December 2013). Our primary outcome indicated that curriculum-trained residents displayed superior performance at laparoscopic salpingectomy (P = .043). Secondary outcomes demonstrated that curriculum-trained residents had higher performance scores on the cognitive multiple-choice questions (P < .001), the nontechnical skills multiple-choice questions (P = .016), box trainer task time (P < .001), and all virtual reality simulator parameters. CONCLUSION Participation in a comprehensive simulation-based training curriculum for gynecologic laparoscopy leads to a superior improvement in knowledge and technical performance in the operating room compared with conventional residency training.