BACKGROUND Various surgical techniques exist to create the gastrojejunostomy during laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypasses (LRYGB). A hand-sewn anastomosis (HSA) and circular-stapled anastomosis (CSA) are both common techniques. We hypothesized that the CSA was associated with a greater incidence of anastomotic complications. As a secondary aim, we sought to determine if weight loss varied by technique. METHODS This study is a retrospective review of patients who underwent primary LRYGB at the Medical College of Wisconsin from January 2010 to December 2011. Procedures were performed by one of 2 surgeons, each with a preferred gastrojejunostomy technique. Clinical information and patient outcomes were followed up to one year. RESULTS A total of 190 patients underwent LRYGB during the study interval. The majority of patients underwent HSA. Forty-one of 190 (21.6%) patients experienced one or more complications. Most complications were Clavien Classification Grade III and were experienced within 30 days of surgery in 3 (2.2%) HSA patients and 6 (10.9%) CSA patients (P = .02). Anastomotic complications occurred more frequently with the CSA technique (marginal ulcer 5.5% CSA versus .7% HSA; P = .04 and stenosis 16.4% CSA versus 3% HSA; P = .01). There were no gastrojejunostomy leaks in this series. Operative time was significantly longer in HSA patients (204 minutes HSA versus 166 minutes CSA; P<.01), but length of hospital stay did not differ. Weight loss at 12 months was similar between techniques (69.4% percent excess BMI lost (EBMIL) HSA versus 76.6% EBMIL CSA; P = .11). No patients were lost to follow-up at 30 days. Thirty-five patients (19%) were lost to follow-up by one year. CONCLUSION The CSA technique of gastrojejunostomy in gastric bypass is associated with a higher rate of nonlife threatening anastomotic complications than the HSA technique. Operative times are significantly longer for HSA, but length of hospital stay (LOS) and long-term weight loss are equivalent.