Background: In the UK, cases of COVID-19 have been declining since mid-April and there is good evidence to suggest that the effective reproduction number has dropped below 1, leading to a multi-phase relaxation plan for the country to emerge from lockdown. As part of this staggered process, primary schools are scheduled to partially reopen on 1st June. Evidence from a range of sources suggests that children are, in general, only mildly affected by the disease and have low mortality rates, though there is less certainty regarding children's role in transmission. Therefore, there is wide discussion on the impact of reopening schools. Methods: We compare eight strategies for reopening primary and secondary schools in England from 1st June, focusing on the return of particular year groups and the associated epidemic consequences. This is assessed through model simulation, modifying a previously developed dynamic transmission model for SARS-CoV-2. We quantify how the process of reopening schools affected contact patterns and anticipated secondary infections, the relative change in R according to the extent of school reopening, and determine the public health impact via estimated change in clinical cases and its sensitivity to decreases in adherence post strict lockdown. Findings: Whilst reopening schools, in any form, results in more mixing between children, an increase in R and hence transmission of the disease, the magnitude of that increase can be low dependent upon the age-groups that return to school and the behaviour of the remaining population. We predict that reopening schools in a way that allows half class sizes or that is focused on younger children is unlikely to push R above one, although there is noticeable variation between the regions of the country. Given that older children have a greater number of social contacts and hence a greater potential for transmission, our findings suggest reopening secondary schools results in larger increases in case burden than only reopening primary schools; reopening both generates the largest increase and could push R above one in some regions. The impact of less social-distancing in the rest of the population, generally has far larger effects than reopening schools and exacerbates the impacts of reopening. Discussion: Our work indicates that any reopening of schools will result in increased mixing and infection amongst children and the wider population, although the opening of schools alone is unlikely to push the value of R above one. However, impacts of other recent relaxations of lockdown measures are yet to be quantified, suggesting some regions may be closer to the critical threshold that would lead to a growth in cases. Given the uncertainties, in part due to limited data on COVID-19 in children, school reopening should be carefully monitored. Ultimately, the decision about reopening classrooms is a difficult trade-off between increased epidemiological consequences and the emotional, educational and developmental needs of children.