We developed an en bloc lymphadenectomy method in the upper mediastinum with a single-port mediastinoscopic cervical approach. This study was designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of single-port mediastinoscope-assisted transhiatal esophagectomy for thoracic esophageal cancer. The perioperative outcomes of 60 patients with thoracic esophageal cancer who underwent this operation between March 2014 and June 2016 were retrospectively analyzed. The upper mediastinal dissection including lymphadenectomy along the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, using a left cervical approach, was performed with a single-port mediastinoscopic technique, which was used to improve the visibility and handling in the deep mediastinum around the aortic arch. The lymphadenectomy along the right recurrent laryngeal nerve was performed under direct vision using a right cervical approach. Bilateral cervical approaches were followed by hand-assisted laparoscopic transhiatal esophagectomy with en bloc lymphadenectomy in the middle and lower mediastinum. Tumors were mainly located in the middle thoracic esophagus (n = 33), and most tumors were squamous cell carcinoma (n = 58). Pretreatment diagnoses were stage I, 19; II, 13; III, 24; IV, 4. Preoperative chemotherapy was performed for 40 patients. The median operation time and blood loss were 363 minutes and 235 mL, respectively. There were two patients who underwent conversion to thoracotomy. Perioperative complications were evaluated and graded according to the Clavien-Dindo (CD) and the Esophagectomy Complications Consensus Group (ECCG) classifications. Postoperatively, pneumonia was observed in four patients (CD, Grade II, 2; Grade IIIb, 2), although vocal cord palsy was more frequent (ECCG, Type I, 12; Type III, 8). The median number of thoracic lymph nodes resected was 21, and the R0 resection rate was 95%. Single-port mediastinoscope-assisted transhiatal esophagectomy is feasible, in terms of perioperative outcomes, for a radical surgery for thoracic esophageal cancer, although its safety needs to be further demonstrated.