INTRODUCTION Pain is highly prevalent in the adult population diagnosed with liver disease. Those progressing to advanced liver disease often experience persistent pain and poor pain relief. There is presently limited guidance for the management of pain and associated symptoms in this population. The current literature lacks attention on how physical, psychological and social domains of liver disease modulate the pain experience. In this paper, we outline our scoping review protocol to systematically review the literature from academic bibliographic databases and grey sources to identify and map the biopsychosocial factors associated with pain in adults with advanced liver disease. METHODS AND ANALYSIS Arksey and O'Malley's methodology, and Tricco et al's Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews, will guide the process for this scoping review. The literature search will include electronic and hand-searching methods using scholarly and grey sources. Scholarly databases include Medline, Embase, Allied and Complementary Medicine and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature. Grey databases will focus on research studies not captured in the scholarly databases including those by government agencies and professional organisations. Two members of the research team will independently screen the resulting publications following specific inclusion and exclusion criteria. Quality appraisal of the included research studies will employ the use of the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool version 2018. Data collection and extraction of study characteristics will use a data extraction tool developed iteratively by the research team. Analysis of the factors associated with pain outcomes will be mapped and described according to the domains of the biopsychosocial model of pain. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION The scoping review involves analysis of the published literature on pain and advanced liver disease and does not require ethics approval. The results will be shared with expert stakeholders to help establish clinical significance. We will disseminate the findings through publication in a scholarly journal: local, provincial, national and international scientific and professional conferences. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER CRD42019135677.