BACKGROUND Chronic low back pain (CLBP) is a highly prevalent and disabling condition in the elderly, and yet it is undertreated and understudied in this patient population. Tapentadol is a central analgesic with an improved tolerability profile that may be particularly beneficial to the elderly CLBP. METHODS We performed an observational retrospective study to comparatively assess the efficacy and tolerability of tapentadol in young and elderly patients with severe CLBP. Sixtyfive young patients (< 65 years) and 87 elderly patients (≥ 65 years) were titrated on tapentadol extended release to their optimal dose (25-250 mg bid) over 1 month and, then, maintained at that dose for 3 months. The primary endpoint were changes from baseline in 24-h pain intensity on a 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) at month-4 of treatment (titration plus maintenance periods). Patients were assessed for several efficacy and tolerability outcomes using a battery of scales and tests for neuropathic pain intensity, quality of life and sleep, and cognitive and gastrointestinal functions. RESULTS At pretreatment, young and elderly patients had similar pain intensities with younger patients presenting with more intense depressive and neuropathic pain symptoms, and lesser comorbidities and durations of pain (P < 0.05). Thirty-eight patients discontinued treatment because of adverse events occurring mostly during titration. Treatment with tapentadol was associated with comparable and clinically meaningful pain reductions in 24-h NRS from baseline to treatment month-4 both in young and elderly patients (- 5.3 ± 1.4 and - 4.8 ± 2.1; P < 0.01); a 50% pain relief was achieved in 66% and 58% of young and elderly patients. The percentage of patients with a neuropathic component decreased similarly in young and elderly patients (from 38 to 0% and from 19 to 3%; P < 0.01). Quality of life and sleep improved. The performances in global cognition and sustained attention tasks remained stable or improved across all age group. CONCLUSIONS These findings indicate that tapentadol extended release maintains efficacy and good tolerability in CLBP patients with advancing age.