The infection of healthcare workers during the 2013 -2016 Ebola outbreak raised concerns about fomite transmission. In the wake of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, investigations are ongoing to determine the role of fomites in coronavirus transmission as well. The bacteriophage Phi 6 has a phospholipid envelope and is commonly used in environmental studies as a surrogate for human enveloped viruses. The persistence of Phi 6 was evaluated as a surrogate for EBOV and coronaviruses on porous and nonporous hospital surfaces. Phi 6 was suspended in a body fluid simulant and inoculated onto 1 cm2 coupons of steel, plastic, and two fabric curtain types. The coupons were placed at two controlled absolute humidity (AH) levels; a low AH of 3.0 g/m3 and a high AH of 14.4 g/m3 Phi 6 declined at a slower rate on all materials under low AH conditions with a decay rate of 0.06 log10PFU/d to 0.11 log10PFU/d, as compared to the higher AH conditions with a decay rate of 0.65 log10PFU/h to 1.42 log10PFU/d. There was a significant difference in decay rates between porous and non-porous surfaces at both low AH (P < 0.0001) and high AH (P < 0.0001). Under these laboratory-simulated conditions, Phi 6 was found to be a conservative surrogate for EBOV under low AH conditions, in that it persisted longer than Ebola virus in similar AH conditions. Additionally, some coronaviruses persist longer than phi6 under similar conditions, therefore Phi6 may not be a suitable surrogate for coronaviruses.IMPORTANCE Understanding the persistence of enveloped viruses helps inform infection control practices and procedures in healthcare facilities and community settings. These data convey to public health investigators that enveloped viruses can persist and remain infective on surfaces, thus demonstrating a potential risk for transmission. Under these laboratory-simulated western indoor hospital conditions, Phi 6 was used to assess suitability as a surrogate for environmental persistence research related to enveloped viruses, including EBOV and coronaviruses.