Background Surgical proficiency is highly dependent on continuous and efficient training. However, efficacy of training hinges on questions such as accessibility and how intuitively the training can be translated into reality. Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) in particular relies on adequate training modalities in order to compensate for its additional psychomotor and visuospatial challenges. The increasing demand for MIS procedures longs for further enhancement of training and steep learning curves. We are investigating a nouveau training concept that continuously utilizes the first person view as addendum to laparoscopic view. We hypothesize this approach to be more intuitive thus faster and more naturally to apprehend than a laparoscopic view only and aim to establish a new standard to implement into training curricula. Methods and analysis The present study is conducted as a monocentric, two-arm randomized trial. Participants undergo a training curriculum in laparoscopic suturing and knot tying, using e-learning video material with either the first-person perspective of the surgeon or the laparoscopic view only. Primary endpoint is the total training time needed to reach a predefined proficiency level. Participants are evaluated by blinded raters using validated checklists. Number of attempts, procedure and knot quality subscore difference as well as metric parameter analysis from the first and last knots analyzed as secondary endpoints. Furthermore, trainees are assessed with regard to surgical background, basic skills level and spatial awareness. A total sample size of 80 participants for the analysis of the primary endpoint was determined, which will be performed as a two-sided t-test. Ethics and dissemination Ethical approval was obtained from the Ethics Committee of the Medical Faculty at Heidelberg University (Code S-334/2011). This trial was registered with the German Clinical Trials Register (DRKS) in Freiburg, Germany, on May 6th (DRKS00009997). The results will be published and presented at appropriate conferences.