BACKGROUND Approximately 2.0 million children in the United States sustain a concussion annually, resulting in an economic impact as high as $20 billion. Patients who receive treatment at concussion specialty clinics, versus primary care, experience faster recovery, thereby reducing patient burden and subsequent medical related costs. Accessibility to specialty clinics is typically limited by the availability of in-office visits. This is particularly relevant in light of the SARS-CoV2 pandemic and subsequent guidance to eliminate all non-medically necessary in-clinic visits. Telehealth has been used to effectively deliver in-clinic care across several disciplines including psychiatry, psychology, and neuropsychology. However, a model of telehealth delivered concussion assessment, treatment, and management has not been established. OBJECTIVE The purpose of this paper is two-fold: to describe a pediatric concussion specialty clinic's experiences in delivering telehealth concussion services, and to provide preliminary descriptive data on a sample of pediatric telehealth concussion patients. METHODS The specialty pediatric concussion clinic described herein began providing telehealth services in 2019, and is part of the largest and fastest growing telehealth hospital network in the United States. The clinical care process will be described including accessing the telehealth platform, assessment during initial appointment, injury management including communication with relevant patient stakeholders (e.g., parent/guardians, athletic trainers, etc.), dissemination of rehabilitation exercises, and nature of follow-up visits. Descriptive data will include patient demographics, radius of care, time between date of injury and initial visit, average number of follow-up visits, and days until medically cleared from return-to-learn and return-to-play. RESULTS The analytic sample included 18 concussion patients who were seen for all of their visits via telehealth August 2019-April 2020. The mean (standard deviation [sd]) age of the sample was 14.5 (2.5) years. Radius of care was a median (interquartile range [IQR]) 17 (11.0-31.0) miles from the clinic, with median (IQR) time between injury and the first visit of 21 (6.0-41.5) days. Mean (sd) number of visits was 2.2 (0.8) with a median (IQR) days between visits of 5.4 (3.0-9.3) to manage and treat the concussion. Of the 18 patients, 55.6% (10/18) were medically cleared the return to learn/play process in a median (IQR) 15.5 (11.0-29.0) days. CONCLUSIONS Limited access to health care is a well understood barrier for receiving quality care. Subsequently, there are increasing demands for flexibility in delivering concussion services remotely and in-clinic. This is the first paper to provide a clinically relevant framework for the assessment, management, and treatment of acute concussion via telehealth in a pediatric. CLINICALTRIAL