In this study, a natural surfactant, saponin was isolated from soapnut (Sapindus Mukorossi). The extracted surfactant was characterized by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) analysis. The effectiveness of the isolated surfactant as EOR agent was evaluated from foam generation/stabilization properties, wettability alteration of the rock surfaces, as well as oil-water interfacial tension (IFT) reduction characteristics. The performance of the extracted saponin was compared with that of a commercial saponin and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). The foaming properties of the saponin with carbon dioxide (CO(2)) was characterized using Teclis Foamscan instrument at room condition and 60 °C. The IFT and contact angles at room conditions and reservoir conditions were measured using KRŰSS Drop Shape Analyzer (DSA 25 and DSA 100) via pendant drop and sessile drop techniques respectively. The foamability of the saponin-stabilized foam was good at ambient condition and 60 °C. Moreover, the time taken for almost 100% liquid drainage was higher in saponin-stabilized foam than the SDS-stabilized foam. The optimum concentration for attaining maximum foam stability decreased from 0.4 wt% at room temperature to 0.1 wt% at 60 °C. Signifying that the quantity of the surfactant to be used in foam generation could reduce at high temperature. The isolated saponin exhibited relatively good interfacial activities individually and in synergistic interaction with silicon dioxide (SiO(2)) nanoparticles at reservoir conditions. Precisely, at 8 MPa and 80 °C, the crude-oil water IFT was reduced from 23.24 mN/m to 1.59 mN/m (about 93.2%) by 0.2 wt% saponin concentration. The IFT was further reduced to 0.87 mN/m (about 96.3%) by a mixed system of 0.5 wt% saponin and 0.05 wt% SiO(2) nanoparticles concentration. Increasing IFT with increasing temperature were observed at very high temperature due to phase separation resulting from clouding phenomenon. However, the clouding temperature increased with 0.1 wt% saponin concentration, and in presence of SiO(2) nanoparticles (0.05 wt% and 0.1 wt%). The study suggests that the extracted saponin could be considered as supplementary alternative to conventional EOR surfactants.