Objective: To analyze the influencing factors of death in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and provide a reference for clinically reducing the mortality of patients with COVID-19. Methods: Based on the retrospective analysis of the case data of all patients with COVID-19 admitted in our hospital from January 17th to February 25th, 2020, and the sex, age, whether or not to take Chinese medicine preparations during hospitalization, clinical classification, comorbidities, nucleic acid test results, admission time, discharge and other relevant indicators were collected for statistical analysis. Results: During the period of COVID-19, the number of patients of COVID-19 in our hospital gradually increased. At the epidemic peak period, 904 patients with COVID-19 were treated simultaneously. From January 17th to February 25th, 2020, a total of 1 305 patients with COVID-19 were treated in our hospital, including 632 males and 673 females, and the male to female ratio was 1:1.06. The age distribution ranged from 7 to 111 years, with a median of 63 (51, 70) years old. There was no significant difference in the age distribution of patients between different genders (Z = 1.217, P = 0.224). The results of univariate analysis showed that the patient's gender, age, whether to take Chinese medicine preparations during treatment, clinical classification, whether combined with underlying diseases (hypertension, coronary heart disease, diabetes, tumors and uremia) and nucleic acid test results all could affect patients fatality rate. Logistics multivariate regression analysis found that taking traditional Chinese medicine preparations, clinical classification, and whether combined with underlying diseases were independent risk factors for death in patients with COVID-19. Conclusion: The death of patients with COVID-19 is related to various factors. Reducing the occurrence of critical illness, controlling underlying diseases, stabilizing blood pressure and blood sugar, actively improving cardio-cerebral vascular conditions, and stabilizing renal function are main measures to improve the therapeutic effect, and early application of traditional Chinese medicine treatment also plays a very important role in reducing the mortality of patients with COVID-19.