The ability of practitioners to assess the adequacy of global oxygen delivery is dependent on an accurate measurement of central venous saturation. Traditional techniques require the placement of invasive central venous access devices. This study aimed to compare two non-invasive technologies for the estimation of regional venous saturation (reflectance plethysmography and near infrared spectroscopy [NIRS]), using venous blood gas analysis as gold standard. Forty patients undergoing cardiac surgery were recruited in two groups. In the first group a reflectance pulse oximeter probe was placed on the skin overlying the internal jugular vein. In the second group, a Somanetics INVOS oximeter patch was placed on the skin overlying the internal jugular vein and overlying the ipsilateral cerebral hemisphere. Central venous catheters were placed in all patients. Oxygen saturation estimates from both groups were compared with measured saturation from venous blood. Twenty patients participated in each group.Data were analyzed by the limits of agreement technique suggested by Bland and Altman and by linear regression analysis. In the reflectance plethysmography group, the mean bias was 4.27% and the limits of agreement were 58.3 to -49.8% (r(2) = 0.00, p = 0.98). In the NIRS group the mean biases were 10.8% and 2.0% for the sensors attached over the cerebral hemisphere and over the internal jugular vein, respectively, and the limits of agreement were 33.1 to -11.4 and 19.5 to -15.5% (r(2) = 0.22, 0.28;p = 0.04, 0.03) for the cerebral hemisphere and internal jugular sites, respectively. While transcutaneous regional oximetry and NIRS have both been used to estimate venous and tissue oxygen saturation non-invasively, the correlation between estimates of ScvO(2) and SxvO(2) were statistically significant for near infrared spectroscopy, but not for transcutaneous regional oximetry. Placement of cerebral oximetry patches directly over the internal jugular vein (as opposed to on the forehead) appeared to approximate internal jugular venous saturation better (lower mean bias and tighter limits of agreement), which suggests this modality may with refinement offer the practitioner additional clinically useful information regarding global cerebral oxygen supply and demand matching.