OBJECTIVE: To analyze the clinical characteristics of patients with severe or critical coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) receiving tracheal intubation. METHODS: We analyzed clinical characteristics of 18 severely or critically ill patients with COVID-19 undergoing tracheal intubation. The general demographic and clinical data of the patients including their age, gender, pre- intubation state of consciousness and the ventilation mode were recorded. The anesthesiologists performing the tracheal intubation procedure evaluated and recorded the tracheal intubation conditions of the patients. The changes in the vital signs of the patients before anesthesia induction and after intubation were recorded. RESULTS: The average ages of these patients were 70.39±8.02 years. Fifteen patients (83.33%) received non- invasive ventilation before tracheal intubation, and 13 patients (72.22%) were conscious before tracheal intubation. After induction of anesthesia, the blood pressure and heart rate of the patients decreased significantly (P < 0.05). Most of the patients (94.44%) were in excellent or good conditions for tracheal intubation, and the first-attempt success rate of tracheal intubation was 100%. Five patients died within 3 weeks following the intubation. Tracheotomy was performed in one patient. Twelve patients were still on endotracheal mechanical ventilation in the intensive care unit, and one of them received ECMO treatment due to poor oxygenation. A total of 16 experienced anesthesiologists participated in tracheal intubation, all with third-level protection during the operation, and no medical staff infection has been detected so far. CONCLUSIONS: For patients with severe and critical COVID-19 and indications of tracheal intubation, we recommend early intubation with invasive respiratory support to improve the treatment efficacy and reduce the mortality. Anesthetic agents should be used carefully during tracheal intubation to ensure patients' safety. The medical staff should have a high-level protection during the intubation to maximally ensure their safety.