BACKGROUND Laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) surgery and minilaparoscopy (ML) represent the evolution of laparoscopy for the treatment of urologic diseases. OBJECTIVE To describe the technique and report the surgical outcomes of minilaparoendoscopic single-site dismembered pyeloplasty (MILESS-DP), a new technique overcoming the technical limitations of LESS and ML, and equally combining the advantages of both these surgical procedures. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Twenty consecutive patients underwent MILESS-DP for ureteropelvic junction obstruction. SURGICAL PROCEDURE The SILS port was inserted through a transumbilical incision and two 3-mm trocars were inserted in the ipsilateral midclavicular line. The sequence of steps of MILESS-DP is comparable to standard laparoscopic dismembered pyeloplasty. MEASUREMENTS The end points of this study were: (1) feasibility; (2) safety; (3) efficacy; and (4) cosmesis, evaluated using a body image questionnaire. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS All patients were symptomatic (100%) and three (15%) had concomitant kidney stones. (1) Feasibility: a conversion to either standard laparoscopic technique or open technique did not occur in any case. Median operative time was 147.3min (interquartile range [IQR]: 110-195min); (2) safety: no intraoperative complications were reported. Only in two patients (10%), a urinoma was postoperatively identified and conservatively treated with an ureteral stent. The median difference in post- and preoperative creatinine and haemoglobin was +0.55mg/dl and -0.76mg/dl (IQR: -0.20/-1.20mg/dl); (3) efficacy: the median postoperative hospital stay was 4.4 d (IQR: 4-9 d). The overall success rate was 95% at the follow-up; (4) cosmesis: all patients were enthusiastic with the appearance of the scars; the median body image score and the median cosmesis score were 19.95 (IQR 19-20) and 23.95 (IQR 23-24), respectively. The limitations of this study are the limited series and short follow-up. CONCLUSIONS Our phase 2a studies demonstrate that MILESS-DP is a safe and reproducible procedure with excellent cosmetic outcomes and short-term clinical outcomes in the hands of a surgical team with experience in laparoscopy. PATIENT SUMMARY Minilaparoscopy using 3-mm instruments and laparoendoscopic single-site using a single abdominal incision, still present several technical drawbacks which limit their reproducibility in urology. In order to overcome these technical limitations and equally combining the advantages of both these surgical procedures, we ideated a hybrid technique which we defined minilaparoendoscopic single-site. This study aims to demonstrate that minilaparoendoscopic single-site pyeloplasty is a safe and reproducible procedure with excellent cosmetic outcomes and short-term clinical outcomes in the hands of a surgical team with experience in mini-invasive surgery.