With the insurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic, a large number of people died in the past several months, and the situation is ongoing with increasing panic and vulnerability. Due to the lack of drugs and prophylaxis against COVID-19, most of the countries are now relying on preventive measures focusing on maintaining social distance. However, this social distancing can create global socio-economic threats and psychological disorders. Therefore, these control measures need to have an assessment to evaluate their potential in containing the situation. In this study, we analyzed the outcome of COVID-19 in response to control measures, health care facilities, and prevalent diseases. Based on our findings, the number of COVID-19 deaths found to reduce with increased medical personnel and hospital beds. We found 0.23, 0.16, and 0.21 as the measurement of non-linear relationship between COVID-19 case fatality and number of physicians, nurses and midwives, and hospital beds and these relationships are highly significant with p-value of 0.000007, 0.0046, and 0.0196, respectively. Importantly, we observed a significant correlation between the reduction of COVID-19 cases and the earliness of preventive initiation. As a result, enhancing health care facilities as well as imposing those control measures in a short time could be valuable to prevent the currently raging COVID-19 pandemic. The apathy of taking immediate health care action from the nations has identified as one of the critical reasons to make the circumstances worst. Gambia, Nicaragua, Burundi, Namibia, and Nepal have marked in a state of danger based on the comparative study towards the health care action for the top twenty burdening and least affected countries. Interestingly, no association in most diseases except for few cases has found between the comorbidities and severity of COVID-19, which warranted further investigation at the pathobiological level. We believe that this study could provide a guide for future COVID-19 research.