UNLABELLED What's known on the subject? and What does the study add? Laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) nephrectomy is feasible to remove diseased kidneys. Most of such procedures previously reported were performed through a transperitoneal (trans-abdominal) approach. We report the feasibility, safety, and techniques of performing such operations without disturbing the bowels (a retroperitoneal LESS approach). This approach provides acceptable operative outcomes, and is especially valuable for patients who need to have an intact peritoneal envelope, or those with potentially abnormal or obliterated peritoneal space. OBJECTIVES • To retrospectively review our experience with respect to evaluating the feasibility and safety of retroperitoneoscopic laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) nephrectomy. • To present the technical details of such a procedure. PATIENTS AND METHODS • In total, eight retroperitoneoscopic LESS nephrectomies (in seven patients) were completed for a variety of indications in a single centre. • The GelPOINT apparatus (Applied Medical, Rancho Santa Margarita, CA, USA) was used as an access platform through a flank incision (3-5 cm). • Except for a bendable grasper and flexible vascular staplers, all instruments used were conventional straight laparoscopic instruments. • Perioperative data were retrospectively obtained for all patients, including demographic data, operative indications, operative records, length of stay, complications, and pathological analysis. RESULTS • All retroperitoneoscopic LESS nephrectomy procedures attempted were completed successfully without complications. No extra working port was required for any case. • Median (range) operating time was 164 (87-198) min and median (range) estimated blood loss was 50 (10-200) cm(3) . Median (range) length of hospital stay was 2 (1-3) days. • The median narcotic used was 34 mg of parental morphine sulphate equivalent. The median (range) visual analogue pain scale score at discharge was 2 (0-3) out of 10. • The present single arm observation study is limited by the small patient number and the absence of a control cohort. CONCLUSIONS • Retroperitoneoscopic LESS nephrectomy using the GelPOINT apparatus as an access platform is feasible and safe. • It provides adequate flexibility and spacing of port placements as well as acceptable operative outcomes. • It is especially valuable for those patients who need to maintain peritoneal integrity or those with an abnormal or obliterated peritoneal space.