INTRODUCTION: The global pandemic due to SARS‐CoV‐2 has resulted in an expansion of telemedicine. Measures of quality and barriers for rapid use by patients and physicians are not well described. OBJECTIVE: To describe results from a quality improvement initiative during rapid adoptive phase of telemedicine during the pandemic. DESIGN: Patient and physician satisfaction with synchronous audiovisual telemedicine visits was measured during early adoptive phase (April 6‐17, 2020) within the division of sports medicine in an academic Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM&R) department. Patients were invited to participate in a quality improvement initiative by completing an online survey at the end of a telemedicine visit. Physicians completed a separate survey. PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Patient measures included visit type, duration of encounter, quality, and satisfaction. Physicians reported on experiences performing telemedicine. RESULTS: Surveys were completed by 119 patients (289 telemedicine encounters, response rate 41%) and 13 physiatrists. Telemedicine was utilized primarily for follow‐up visits (n=74, 70.6%) and most common duration was 15‐29 minutes. Patients rated their telemedicine visit as “excellent” or “very good” across measures (91.6‐95.0%) including addressing concerns, communication, developing a treatment plan, convenience, and satisfaction. Value of completing a future telemedicine visit was measured at 84.9%. Most reported estimated travel time saved in excess of 30 minutes. Rate of no‐show was 2.8%. Most physicians (62%) had no prior experience with telemedicine visits, and most were comfortable performing these visits after completing 1‐4 sessions (69%). Nearly all physicians (92%) rated their telemedicine experience as very good or excellent. The key barrier identified for telemedicine was technical issues. All physicians reported plans to perform telemedicine visits if reimbursement continues. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, rapid expansion of telemedicine during COVID‐19 pandemic was well‐received by a majority of patients and physicians. This suggests feasibility in rapid expansion of telemedicine for other outpatient sports medicine practices. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.