UNLABELLED To protect occupants from infectious diseases or possible chemical/biological agents released by a terrorist in an enclosed space, such as an airliner cabin, it is critical to identify gaseous contaminant source locations and strengths. This paper identified the source locations and strengths by solving inverse contaminant transport with the quasi-reversibility (QR) and pseudo-reversibility (PR) methods. The QR method replaces the second-order diffusion term in the contaminant transport equation with a fourth-order stabilization term. By using the airflow pattern calculated by computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and the time when the peak contaminant concentration was measured by a sensor in downstream, the QR method solves the backward probability density function (PDF) of contaminant source location. The PR method reverses the airflow calculated by CFD and solves the PDF in the same manner as the QR method. The position with the highest PDF is the location of the contaminant source. The source strength can be further determined by scaling the nominal contaminant concentration computed by CFD with the concentration measured by the sensor. By using a two-dimensional and a three-dimensional aircraft cabin as examples of enclosed spaces, the two methods can identify contaminant source locations and strengths in the cabins if the sensors are placed in the downstream location of the sources. The QR method performed slightly better than the PR method but with a longer computing time. PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS The paper presents a method that can be used to find a gaseous contaminant source location and determine its strength in enclosed spaces with the data of contaminant concentration measured by one sensor. The method can be a very useful tool to find where, what, and how the contamination has happened. The method is also useful for optimally placing sensors in enclosed spaces. The results can be applied to develop appropriate measures to protect occupants in enclosed environments from infectious diseases or chemical/biological warfare agents released by a terrorist.