Background The objective of this study was to investigate a case of a permanently (suprapubic) catheterized woman with neurogenic bladder dysfunction. The patient had suffered from recurrent catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTIs) since 2009, despite several prevention approaches and attempts. In 2013, the patient's catheter was substituted for the BIP Foley Catheter, coated with a noble metal alloy (NMA) of gold, silver, and palladium. Method This is a retrospective-prospective clinical case study covering 4 years history for the control catheters and up to 2.5 years for the anti-infective BIP Foley Catheter. CAUTI incidences, symptoms, antibiotics, catheter performance, and comfort were evaluated. Levels of proinflammatory cytokines were measured pre- and post-substitution to BIP Foley Catheter in urine of the case and of four other permanently catheterized patients. In addition, the levels of noble metals were assessed in urine of the case subject during use of the BIP Foley Catheter. Results While using control catheters, the patient experienced symptomatic CAUTIs requiring antibiotics almost every month for 4 years. After 1 month with the BIP Foley Catheter, the symptoms disappeared, and the patient remained free of symptomatic CAUTIs and antibiotic treatment for the following 2.5 years, despite bacteriuria. The patient was satisfied with the comfort during insertion, use, and removal of the BIP Foley Catheter. Urinary levels of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) decreased towards normal levels post catheter type substitution. Traces of noble metals detected in a few urine samples were ⩽4% of the permitted daily exposure. The levels of the noble metals gold, silver, and palladium remaining on the BIP Foley Catheter after use were the same as for unused catheters. Conclusion Long-term use of a NMA-coated catheter was associated with cessation of frequent CAUTIs. The catheter was experienced as comfortable and inflammatory markers were reduced with time. The coating was stable, with no significant metal release into urine and is therefore safe for patient use.