Objective: To explore the proper protective measures for pancreatic diseases treatment during the outbreak of 2019 coronavirus disease(COVID-19). Methods: Clinical data of four cases of patients that suffered COVID-19 from February 2(nd) to February 9(th), 2020 at Department of Pancreatic Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology were reviewed induding 4 males and 1 female, aging of 50, 51, 46, 87 years old, respectively. After the first patients cuffed nosocomial infection of COVID-19, the general protective measures were updated.Only one patient was admitted to each room alone, with no more than one caregiver. The body temperature of care givers was measured twice a day.Primary protections were applied to all staff.The floor was sterilized using disinfectant with an effective chlorine concentration of 1 000 mg/L. The protective measures for interventional procedures were as follow. Primary protection was applied to the operators of central venipuncture catheter, percutaneous abdominal/pleural drainage, percutaneous retroperitoneal drainage, percutaneous transhepatic cholangial drainage and other surgical procedures with local anesthesia and epidural anesthesia. Secondary protection was applied to the operators of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and surgical procedures with general anesthesia. Results: There were four patients who were diagnosed as COVID-19, of which one died of COVID-19, two were cured, and one was still in hospital for COVID-19. After the update of protective measures, no more nosocomial infection of COVID-19 occurred. Two central venipuncture catheter, three percutaneous abdominal or pleural drainage, one percutaneous retroperitoneal drainage, one percuteneous transhepatic cholecyst drainage and one open surgery with general anesthesia were performed with no infection of operators. Conclusions: The caregivers of patients are potential infection source of COVID-19. Enhanced protective measures including the management measures of caregivers can decrease the risk of nosocomial infection of COVID-19.