IMPORTANCE: Asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections are potential sources for transmission; characterization of these cases has not been conducted in most low/middle income countries, including Mexico. OBJECTIVE: To profile pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections in Mexico City, its associated comorbidities and outcomes. DESIGN: Prospective observational study SETTING: Subjects assessed by convenience sampling within the National Epidemiological Surveillance System in Mexico City. PARTICIPANTS: Subjects with and without respiratory and non-respiratory symptoms (RS, NRS, respectively) assessed for SARS-CoV-2 using real time RT-PCR from nasopharyngeal swabs. OUTCOMES: Severe COVID-19, intensive care unit admission, 30-day mortality and their outcomes in cases RS or NRS and asymptomatic cases. RESULTS: Amongst 60121 cases with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection as of July 1st, 2020, we identified 5982 cases without RS (9.9%) and 2452 who were asymptomatic at first evaluation (4.1%). Compared to cases with RS, NRS and asymptomatic cases were younger and had lower rates of comorbidities. Cases with NRS had higher rates of severe COVID-19 outcomes including hospitalization, ICU admission, and intubation (p<0.001). Mortality was higher for cases with NRS (HR 3.13, 95%CI 1.80-5.45) or RS (HR 7.58, 95%CI 4.56-12.58) compared to asymptomatic cases, adjusted for age, sex and comorbidities. Predictors for mortality in cases without RS included older age, previous exposure to suspected viral infection cases, comorbidities, presence of NRS and vomiting. For asymptomatic SARS-Co-V-2 infections, chronic kidney disease, previous exposure with suspected infection cases and older age were predictors for lethality. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Definition of pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic cases has relevant implications for SARS-CoV-2 infection outcomes. Older age and comorbidity impact on the probability of developing severe complications for cases who were asymptomatic or had only NRS at evaluation and were sent for domiciliary treatment. Extending testing for detection of asymptomatic cases must be considered in Mexico to better understand the impact of the pandemic.