INTRODUCTION Immobilization of hindlimb muscles in a shortened position results in an accelerated rate of inactivity-induced muscle atrophy and contractile dysfunction. Similarly, prolonged controlled mechanical ventilation (CMV) results in diaphragm inactivity and induces diaphragm muscle atrophy and contractile dysfunction. Further, the application of positive end-expiratory airway pressure (PEEP) during mechanical ventilation would result in shortened diaphragm muscle fibers throughout the respiratory cycle. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that, compared to CMV without PEEP, the combination of PEEP and CMV would accelerate CMV-induced diaphragm muscle atrophy and contractile dysfunction. To test this hypothesis, we combined PEEP with CMV or with assist-control mechanical ventilation (AMV) and determined the effects on diaphragm muscle atrophy and contractile properties. METHODS The PEEP level (8 cmH2O) that did not induce lung overdistension or compromise circulation was determined. In vivo segmental length changes of diaphragm muscle fiber were then measured using sonomicrometry. Sedated rabbits were randomized into seven groups: surgical controls and those receiving CMV, AMV or continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) with or without PEEP for 2 days. We measured in vitro diaphragmatic force, diaphragm muscle morphometry, myosin heavy-chain (MyHC) protein isoforms, caspase 3, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), muscle atrophy F-box (MAFbx) and muscle ring finger protein 1 (MuRF1) mRNA. RESULTS PEEP shortened end-expiratory diaphragm muscle length by 15%, 14% and 12% with CMV, AMV and CPAP, respectively. Combined PEEP and CMV reduced tidal excursion of segmental diaphragm muscle length; consequently, tidal volume (VT) decreased. VT was maintained with combined PEEP and AMV. CMV alone decreased maximum tetanic force (Po) production by 35% versus control (P < 0.01). Combined PEEP and CMV did not decrease Po further. Po was preserved with AMV, with or without PEEP. Diaphragm muscle atrophy did not occur in any fiber types. Diaphragm MyHC shifted to the fast isoform in the combined PEEP and CMV group. In both the CMV and combined PEEP and CMV groups compared to controls, IGF-1 mRNAs were suppressed, whereas Caspase-3, MAFbx and MuRF1 mRNA expression were elevated. CONCLUSIONS Two days of diaphragm muscle fiber shortening with PEEP did not exacerbate CMV-induced diaphragm muscle dysfunction.