BACKGROUND Postoperative urinary retention (POUR) is a common complication of ambulatory inguinal herniorraphy, with an incidence reaching 38%, and many surgeons require patients to void before discharge. This study aimed to assess whether the implementation of a bladder scan-based voiding protocol reduces the time until discharge after ambulatory inguinal herniorraphy without increasing the rate of POUR. METHODS As part of a perioperative care pathway, a protocol was implemented to standardize decision making after elective inguinal hernia repair (February 2012). Patients were assessed with a bladder scan, and those with <600 mL of urine were discharged home, whereas those with more than 600 mL of urine had an in-and-out catheterization before discharge. The patients received written information about urinary symptoms and instructions to present to the emergency department if they were unable to void at home. An audit of scheduled outpatient inguinal hernia repairs between October 2011 and July 2012 was performed. Comparisons were made using the t test, Fisher's exact test, and Wilcoxon rank sum test where appropriate. Statistical significance was defined a priori as a p value lower than 0.05. RESULTS During the study period, 124 patients underwent hernia repair: 60 before and 64 after implementation of the protocol. The findings showed no significant differences in patient characteristics, laparoscopic approach (35 vs. 33%; p = 0.80), proportion receiving general anesthesia (70 vs. 73%; p = 0.67), or amount of intravenous fluids given (793 vs. 663 mL; p = 0.07). The proportion of patients voiding before discharge was higher after protocol implementation (73 vs. 89%; p = 0.02). The protocol had no impact on median time to discharge (190 vs. 205 min; p = 0.60). Only one patient in each group presented to the emergency department with POUR (2%). CONCLUSION After ambulatory inguinal herniorraphy, implementation of a bladder scan-based voiding protocol did not result in earlier discharge. The incidence of POUR was lower than reported in the literature.