OBJECTIVE: Ever since the first positive test was identified on January 21, 2020, Washington State has been on the frontlines of the COVID-19 pandemic. Based on information obtained from Italian surgeons in Milan and given concerns regarding rising case numbers in Washington state, we implemented new vascular surgery guidelines, which canceled all non-emergent surgical procedures and involved significant changes to our inpatient and outpatient workflow. The consequences of these decisions are not yet understood. METHODS: The division of vascular surgery at Harborview Medical Center immediately instituted new vascular surgery COVID-19 practice guidelines on March 17, 2020. Subsequent clinic, operative, and consult volume was collected over the next 4 weeks and compared to historical averages. Washington state case/death numbers and UW Medicine hospital case volumes were collected from publicly available sources. RESULTS: Since March 10, 2020, the number of confirmed positive COVID-19 cases within the UW Medicine system has increased 1867%, with floor and intensive care unit bed utilization increasing by 120% and 215%, respectively. After instituting our new COVID-19 guidelines, our average weekly clinical volume decreased by 96.5% (43.1 patients to 1.5 per week), our average weekly surgical volume decreased by 71.7% (from 15 cases to 4.25 per week), and our inpatient consultation volume decreased to 1.81 consults per day. 60% of consultations were completed as telemedicine “e-consults” in which the patient was never evaluated in-person. Trainee surgical volume has also decreased by 86.4% for the vascular surgery fellow and 84.8% for the integrated resident. CONCLUSIONS: The COVID-19 pandemic has changed every aspect of “normal” vascular surgical practice in a large academic institution. New practice guidelines effectively reduced operating room utilization and decreased staff and trainee exposure to potential infection, with changes to clinic volume not resulting in an immediate rise in emergency department/inpatient consultations or acute surgical emergencies. These changes, although preserving resources, are also reducing trainee exposure and operative volume significantly, which requires new modes of education delivery. Lessons learned during the COVID-19 pandemic, if analyzed, will help us prepare for the next crisis.