OBJECTIVE Recent worldwide outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the causative agent of respiratory coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), is a current, ongoing life-threatening crisis, and international public health emergency. The early diagnosis and management of the disease remains a major challenge. In this review, we aim to summarize the updated epidemiology, causes, clinical manifestation and diagnosis, as well as prevention and control of the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. MATERIALS AND METHODS A broad search of the literature was performed in "PubMed" "Medline" "Web of Science", "Google Scholar" and "World Health Organization-WHO" using the keywords "severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus", "2019-nCoV", "COVID-19, "SARS", "SARS-CoV-2" "Epidemiology" "Transmission" "Pathogenesis" "Clinical Characteristics". We reviewed and documented the information obtained from literature on epidemiology, pathogenesis and clinical appearances of SARS-CoV-2 infection. RESULTS The global cases of COVID-19 as of April 2, 2020, have risen to more than 900,000 and morbidity has reached more than 47,000. The incidence rate for COVID-19 has been predicted to be higher than the previous outbreaks of other coronavirus family members, including those of SARS-CoV and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV). The main clinical presentation of SARS-CoV-2 infection ranges from asymptomatic stages to severe lower respiratory infection in the form of pneumonia. Most of the patients also presented with fever, cough, sore throat, headache, fatigue, myalgia and breathlessness. Individuals at higher risk for severe illness include elderly people and patients with a weakened immune system or that are suffering from an underlying chronic medical condition like hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cancer, respiratory illness or cardiovascular diseases. CONCLUSIONS SARS-Cov-2 has emerged as a worldwide threat, currently affecting 170 countries and territories across the globe. There is still much to be understood regarding SARS-CoV-2 about its virology, epidemiology and clinical management strategies; this knowledge will be essential to both manage the current pandemic and to conceive comprehensive measures to prevent such outbreaks in the future.