Objective Thoracoscopic treatment of pulmonary hydatid cyst (PHC) has been considered to be a good treatment option in both children and adults for nearly 25 years. However, there have been very few pediatric studies published during this period. Our goal is to review our results and evaluate the efficiency of thorascopy in pediatric patients. Materials and Methods The medical records of patients with PHC who were surgically treated between 2005 and 2015 were reviewed. As all cysts larger than 5 cm in diameter were surgically removed, cysts less than 5 cm in diameter were medically treated and were not included in the study. Demographics, cyst characteristics, and operative/postoperative data were compared between patients who underwent thorascopy (thoracoscopy group) and patients who underwent thoracotomy (thoracotomy group). Chi-square and t-test were used for statistical analysis where appropriate. Results There were 26 consecutive children (14 girls, 12 boys; mean age 9.4±2.7) included in the study. Except for 2 incidentally diagnosed patients, all were symptomatic, 4 had multifocal lesions, and multiorgan involvement was detected in 11 patients. Thoracoscopy was performed in 10 patients, and conversion was necessary in 2 patients due to unsuccessful fistula ligation attempts. The thoracoscopy group included 8 thoracoscopically treated patients, and remaining patients constituted the thoracotomy group (n=18). Comparison of preoperative characteristics of the groups was insignificant, whereas the overall complication rate (residual bronchial fistula, prolonged air leak, pneumothorax, and localized air cyst) and median hospital stay were significantly higher in the thoracoscopy group. There was no mortality and no recurrence at the postoperative follow-up after 37.4 months. Conclusion The thoracoscopic approach to PHC may have a high risk of conversion and postoperative complication rate. Thoracotomy in children still seems to be the approach of choice for PHC larger than 5 cm. Routine thoracoscopic hydatid cyst treatment is yet far from being the gold standard, whereas thoracoscopy may be preferred in selected patients.