Objective. During the onset of a novel epidemic, there are public health priorities that need to be estimated, such as risk factors for infection, hospitalization, and clinical severity to allocate resources and issue health policies. In this work we calculate the risk of infection and hospitalization by Covid-19 conferred by demographic, lifestyle, and co-morbidity factors. Material and methods. This is a case-control study including the tested individuals for SARS-Cov-2 by RT-PCR officially reported by the Health Secretary of Mexico from January 01 to May 8, 2020 (102,875 subjects). Demographic (sex, age, foreign and immigrant status, native speaking, place of residence), life-style (smoking), and co-morbidities [diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure (HBP), asthma, immunosuppression, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cardiovascular disease other than HBP, chronic kidney disease (CKD), and other not specified diseases (other diseases)] variables were included in this study. The risk of infection and hospitalization conferred by each variable was calculated with univariate (ULR) and multivariate (MLR) logistic regression models. Results. The place of residence (OR=4.91 living in Tijuana City), followed by advanced age (OR=6.71 in 61-70 years-old), suffering from diabetes (OR=1.87) or obesity (OR=1.61), being male (OR=1.55), having HBP (OR=1.52), and notoriously being indigenous (OR=1.49) conferred a higher risk of becoming infected by SARS-CoV-2 in Mexico. Unexpectedly, we found that having asthma (OR=0.63), immunosuppression (OR=0.65) or smoking (OR=0.85) are protective factors against infection, while suffering from COPD does not increase the risk for SARS-CoV-2 infection. In contrast, advanced age (OR=11.6 in [≥] 70 years-old) is the main factor for hospitalization due to Covid-19, followed by some co-morbidities, mainly diabetes (OR=3.69) and HBP (OR=2.79), being indigenous (OR=1.89), male sex (OR=1.67) and the place of residence (OR=4.22 for living in Juarez City). Unlike the protective risk against infection, immunosuppression (OR=2.69) and COPD (OR=3.63), contribute to the risk of being hospitalized, while having asthma (OR=0.7) also provides protection against hospitalization. Conclusions. In addition to confirming that older age, diabetes, HBP and obesity are the main risk of infection and hospitalization by Covid-19, we found that being indigenous, immunosuppression, smoking and asthma protect against infection, and the latter also against hospitalization.