BACKGROUND Bispectral Index (BIS)-guided anesthesia administration has been reported to reduce the time to tracheal extubation. However, no trials have compared the ability of BIS guidance to promote earlier tracheal extubation relative to guidance by end-tidal anesthetic concentration (ETAC). We hypothesized that BIS-guided anesthesia would result in earlier tracheal extubation compared with ETAC-guided anesthesia in fast-track cardiac surgery patients. METHODS This study consisted of patients at a single institution who were enrolled in the larger, multicenter BIS or Anesthesia Gas to Reduce Explicit Recall (BAG-RECALL) clinical trial that compared rates of postoperative awareness for patient whose anesthetic was guided by BIS versus ETAC. Patients undergoing cardiac surgery were randomized to BIS (n = 361) or ETAC (n = 362) guided anesthesia. Volatile anesthetic was titrated either to maintain a BIS value of 40 to 60 (BIS group), or an age-adjusted minimum alveolar concentration of 0.7 to 1.3 (ETAC group). In the ETAC group, anesthesiologists were blinded to the BIS values. In this substudy, time to tracheal extubation was compared between groups. Cox regression identified predictors affecting the instantaneous probability of tracheal extubation. RESULTS Time to tracheal extubation was not significantly different between groups (odds ratio 1.04, 95% confidence interval, 0.88-1.23, P = 0.643). In addition, group assignment did not influence the instantaneous probability of tracheal extubation (P = 0.433). Predictors decreasing the instantaneous probability of tracheal extubation included higher body mass index (P = 0.001), higher logistic EuroSCORE (P = 0.015), complex surgery type (P = 0.034), and surgery completion in the evening (P = 0.03). CONCLUSIONS Compared with management based on ETAC, anesthetic management based on BIS guidance does not strongly increase the probability of earlier tracheal extubation in patients undergoing fast-track cardiac surgery. The decision to extubate the trachea is more influenced by patient characteristics and perioperative course than the assignment to BIS or ETAC monitoring.