BACKGROUND Nowadays, fat grafting is a widespread technique that is commonly used in plastic and reconstructive surgery. The classical fat-harvesting method in which a 10-cc syringe and a 3.0-mm cannula are used, may be time-consuming when a large quantity of adipose tissue is required. We describe a novel technique to optimize fat harvesting, the vacuum-assisted adipose tissue suction technique (VAST), in which disposable sterile components are used. This study compares the adipose tissue harvesting speed and the adipocyte volume between the VAST and the 10-cc-syringe technique. METHODS From May 2010 to May 2012, a total of 32 patients who had structural fat grafting for breast reconstruction were enrolled in this prospective study. In 16 patients (control group) fat was harvested by the classical 10-cc-syringe technique, and in the other 16 patients (VAST group) fat was harvested by the VAST. Adipose tissue was harvested from the abdomen area in all patients. The volume of harvested adipose tissue was noted every minute during the operative procedure. The operative harvesting speed was calculated for each patient after 5 min. The volume harvested in 5 min was centrifuged, and the remaining adipocyte volume was noted after centrifugation. The operative harvesting speed and the remaining adipocyte rate were compared in both groups. RESULTS The average volume of harvested adipose tissue was 18.1 ml in the control group and 156.2 ml in the VAST group (p < 0.001). The average harvesting speed was 3.6 ml/min in the control group using a 10-cc syringe and 31.2 ml/min in the VAST group (p < 0.001). The average remaining adipocyte volume, after centrifugation, was 13.5 ml in the control group, and 118.2 ml in the VAST group (p < 0.001). The average remaining adipocyte rate, after centrifugation, was 74.3 % in the control group and 75.4 % in the VAST group (p = 0.27). CONCLUSIONS Adipose tissue harvesting can be optimized safely by using the VAST before structural fat grafting. Its quickness, low cost, and efficiency make us choose this method in breast reconstruction when a significant volume of adipocytes is required. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE III This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .