BACKGROUND Laparoscopic cholecystectomy currently is the gold standard technique for gallbladder removal. The use of routine intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) is widely practiced during conventional four-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy (4PLC) to confirm biliary anatomy and allow for immediate management of unexpected choledocholithiasis. Single-incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) offers a more aesthetic technique for gallbladder removal and has been reported by several groups. However, no series to date have included routine IOC without a separate incision. This study aimed to demonstrate the feasibility of the SILS technique for cholecystectomy with routine IOC (LCIOC) and common bile duct (CBD) exploration as needed via the umbilical port. METHODS A database was prospectively completed for a series of 60 consecutive patients undergoing single-incision LCIOC via the umbilical port. Details of the patients, operations, indications, outcomes, and follow-up evaluation were included. RESULTS Of the 60 patients included in the database, 55 (91.7%) successfully underwent single-incision laparoscopic cholecystectomy (SILC), whereas the remaining five patients required conversion to 4PLC. No patient required conversion to open cholecystectomy (OC). Of the 55 successful SILC patients, 53 (88.3%) successfully received IOCs, 48 of which were normal. The remaining five IOCs demonstrated choledocholithiasis, four of which could be managed laparoscopically without the need for conversion to either 4PLC or OC. One patient required postoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). Complications included four wound infections (7.8%), one incisional hernia (2.0%), and one bile leak (3.2%). The operating time ranged from 35 to 180 min and decreased with experience. CONCLUSIONS This study represents the largest series to date of single-incision laparoscopic cholecystectomies with routine IOC via the umbilical port and is the first study to demonstrate that the laparoscopic management of choledocholithiasis during SILC is feasible.