Healthcare accessibility and site suitability analysis is an elongated and complex task that requires evaluation of different decision factors. The main objective of the present study was to develop a hybrid decision-making approach with geographic information systems to integrate spatial and non-spatial data to form a weighted result. This study involved three-tier analyses for assessing accessibility and selecting suitable sites for healthcare facilities, and analysing shortest-path network. The first tier of analysis stressed the spatial distance, density and proximity from existing healthcare to find more deprived and inaccessible areas in term of healthcare facilities. The result revealed that spatial discrepancy exists in the study area in term of access to healthcare facilities and for achieving equal healthcare access, it is essential to propose new plans. Thus, require finding suitable sites for put forward new healthcare service, which was highlighted in the second tier of analysis based on land use land cover, distancing to road and rail, proximity to residential areas, and weighted overlay of accessibility as decision factors. Finally, in the third tier of analysis, the most suitable site among the proposed healthcare was identified using the technique for order of preference by similarity to ideal solution. The road network analysis was also performed in this study to determine the shortest and fastest route from these healthcare facilities to connect with district medical hospital. The present study found some suitable sites throughout the district on inaccessible zones where people are deprived from better healthcare facilities. This attempt will highly helpful for preparing a spatial decision support system which assists the health authorities regarding the healthcare services in inaccessible, underprivileged, and rural areas. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s41324-020-00330-0) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.