BACKGROUND: Ayurvedic clinical profiling of COVID-19 is a pre-requisite to develop standalone and integrative treatment approaches. At present, Ayurvedic clinicians do not have access to COVID-19 patients in clinical settings. In these circumstances, a preliminary clinical profiling of COVID-19 based on review of modern medical and classical Ayurvedic literature with inputs from Allopathic clinicians treating COVID-19 patients assumes significance. OBJECTIVES: This paper aims to develop an Ayurvedic clinical profile of COVID-19 by literature review supported by analysis of clinical data of a cohort of COVID-19 patients. METHODS: The typical clinical presentation of COVID-19 was categorized based on a cluster of symptoms with reference to "Interim Clinical Guidance for Management of Patients with confirmed corona virus disease (COVID-19)" released by the US CDC. As the clinical presentation is found to vary widely, research papers reporting clinical symptoms of patient samples from different parts of the world were also reviewed to identify outliers and atypical presentations. Case records of fourteen COVID-19 patients treated at Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon were analyzed to compare symptomatology with data obtained from published literature. Further, a careful correlation was done with the data collected from selected Ayurvedic classical texts and expert views of clinical practitioners to arrive at a preliminary Ayurvedic clinical profile of COVID-19. RESULTS: COVID-19 can be understood from the Ayurvedic perspective as vatakapha dominant sannipatajvara of agantu origin with pittanubandha. The asymptomatic, presymptomatic, mild, moderate, severe and critical stages of COVID-19 with varying clinical presentations have been analysed on the basis of nidana, dosa, dusya, nidanapañcaka and satkriyakala to present a preliminary clinical profile of the disease. CONCLUSION: In this paper, we have demonstrated that a preliminary clinical profiling of COVID-19 from the Ayurvedic perspective is possible through literature review supported by discussions with Allopathic clinicians as well as examination of patient case records. The provisional diagnosis proposed can be further developed with continued review of literature, wider cooperation and teamwork with Allopathic physicians and access to clinical data as well as direct clinical assessment of COVID-19 patients.