Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is an emerging swine enteropathogenic coronavirus. The nonstructural protein nsp5, also called 3C-like protease, is responsible for processing viral polyprotein precursors in coronavirus (CoV) replication. Previous studies have shown that PDCoV nsp5 cleaves the NF-&#954;B essential modulator and the signal transducer and activator of transcription 2 to disrupt interferon (IFN) production and signaling, respectively. Whether PDCoV nsp5 also cleaves IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs), IFN-induced antiviral effector molecules, remains unclear. In this study, we screened 14 classical ISGs and found that PDCoV nsp5 cleaved the porcine mRNA-decapping enzyme 1a (pDCP1A) through its protease activity. Similar cleavage of endogenous pDCP1A was also observed in PDCoV-infected cells. PDCoV nsp5 cleaved pDCP1A at glutamine 343 (Q343) and the cleaved pDCP1A fragments, pDCP1A1-343 and pDCP1A344-580, could not inhibit PDCoV infection. Mutant pDCP1A-Q343A, which resists nsp5-mediated cleavage, exhibited a stronger ability to inhibit PDCoV infection compared with wild-type pDCP1A. Interestingly, the Q343 cleavage site is highly conserved in DCP1A homologs from other mammalian species. Further analyses demonstrated that nsp5 encoded by seven tested CoVs that can infect human or pig also cleaved pDCP1A and human DCP1A, suggesting that DCP1A maybe the common target for cleavage by nsp5 of mammalian CoVs.IMPORTANCE IFN-stimulated gene (ISG) induction through interferon (IFN) signaling is important to create an antiviral state and usually directly inhibits virus infection. The present study first demonstrated that PDCoV nsp5 can cleave mRNA-decapping enzyme 1a (DCP1A) to attenuate its antiviral activity. Furthermore, cleaving DCP1A is a common characteristic of nsp5 proteins from different coronaviruses (CoVs), which represents a common immune evasion mechanism of CoVs. Previous evidence showed that CoV nsp5 cleaves the NF-&#954;B essential modulator and signal transducer and activator of transcription 2. Taken together, CoV nsp5 is a potent IFN antagonist because it can simultaneously target different aspects of the host IFN system, including IFN production and signaling and effector molecules.