Background: Mental health has become one of the fundamental priorities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Situations like physical distancing as well as being constantly tagged as the most vulnerable group could expose older adults to mental and psychosocial burdens. Nonetheless, there is little clarity about the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or similar pandemics in the past on the mental illness, wellbeing, and psychosocial health of the older population compared to other age groups. Objectives: To describe the patterns of older adults' mental and psychosocial health related to acute respiratory disease propagated-type epidemics and pandemics and to evaluate the differences with how other age groups respond. Eligibility criteria: quantitative and qualitative studies evaluating mental illness, wellbeing, or psychosocial health outcomes associated with respiratory propagated epidemics and pandemics exposure or periods (COVID-19, SARS-CoV, MERS, and Influenza) in people 65 years or older. Data source: Original articles published until June 1st, 2020, in any language searched in the electronic healthcare and social sciences database: MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Scopus, WHO Global literature on coronavirus disease database, China National Knowledge Infrastructure ( - CNKI). Furthermore, EPPI Centre's COVID-19 living systematic map and the publicly available publication list of the COVID-19 living systematic review will be incorporated for preprints and recent COVID-19 publications. Data extraction: Two independent reviewers will extract predefined parameters. The risk of bias will be assessed. Data synthesis: Data synthesis will be performed according to study type and design, type of epidemic and pandemic, types of outcomes (mental health and psychosocial outcomes), and participant characteristics (e.g., sex, race, age, socioeconomic status, food security, presence of dependency in daily life activities independent/dependent older adults). Comparison between sex, race, and other age groups will be performed qualitatively, and quantitatively if enough data is available. The risk of bias and study heterogeneity will be reported for quantitative studies. Conclusion: This study will provide information to take actions to address potential mental health difficulties during the COVID-19 pandemic in older adults and to understand responses on this age group. Furthermore, it will be useful to identify potential groups that are more vulnerable or resilient to the mental-health challenges of the current worldwide pandemic.