Abstract Objectives In the U.S., home health agencies (HHAs) provide essential services for patients recovering from post-acute-care and older adults who are aging in place. During the COVID-19 pandemic, HHAs may face additional challenges caring for these vulnerable patients. Our objective was to explore COVID-19 preparedness of U.S. HHAs and compare results by urban/rural location. Design Cross-sectional study. Setting/Participants Using a stratified random sample of 978 HHAs, we conducted a 22-item online survey from April 10 to 17, 2020. Methods Summary statistics were computed; open-ended narrative responses were synthesized using qualitative methods. Results Similar to national data, most responding HHAs (n=121, 12% response rate) were for-profit and located in the South. A majority of HHAs had infectious disease outbreaks included in their emergency preparedness plan (76%), a staff member in charge of outbreak/disaster preparedness (84%), and had provided their staff with COVID-19 education and training (97%). More urban HHAs had cared for confirmed and recovered COVID-19 patients than rural HHAs, but urban HHAs had less capacity to test for COVID-19 than rural HHAs (9% vs 21%). Most (69%) experienced patient census declines and had a current and/or anticipated supply shortage. Rural agencies were impacted less than urban agencies. HHAs have already rationed (69%) or implemented extended use (55%) or limited reuse (61%) of personal protective equipment (PPE). Many HHAs reported accessing supplemental PPE from state/local resources, donations, and do-it-yourself efforts; more rural HHAs had accessed these additional resources compared to urban HHAs. Conclusions/Implications This survey reveals challenges that HHAs are having in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly among urban agencies. Of greatest concern are the declines in patient census, which drastically impact agency revenue, and the shortages of PPE and disinfectants. Without proper protection, HHA clinicians are at risk of self-exposure and viral transmission to patients and vulnerable family members.