This study was conducted to test the hypothesis that dietary supplementation with anti‐E. coli, chicken egg yolk immunoglobulins (IgY), may affect early weaned piglet (EWP) intestinal functions and enteric micro‐organisms. One hundred and forty‐eight ([Landrace × Yorkshire] × Duroc) piglets, weaned at age day 21, were randomly assigned to receive one of three diets for 14 days. Treatment group one (control group) was fed the base diet. Treatment group two (antibiotics group) was fed the base diet which was supplemented with 100 ppm colistin sulphate and 15 ppm enramycin; treatment group three (IgY group) was fed the base diet which was supplemented with 500 mg/kg anti‐E. coli IgY. The study evaluated the effects on EWPs of IgY on growth, serum biochemical, inflammatory profiles and also digestion content intestinal bacterial populations. Results showed no significant difference in diarrhoea rates between IgY‐fed EWPs and antibiotic‐treated EWPs. Serum biochemical analysis showed that EWPs fed an IgY‐containing diet had both lower (p < 0.05) cholesterol and low‐density lipoprotein compared to antibiotic‐treated EWPs. Escherichia coli populations measured in IgY‐fed EWP ileal contents, compared to the control group, were significantly reduced (p < 0.05). Enterococcus, Lactobacillus, Clostridium and Bifidobacterium populations were unaffected by the IgY treatment. Larger (p < 0.05) Enterococcus populations and lower (p < 0.05) expression levels of heat‐stable enterotoxin b (STb) were observed in IgY‐fed EWP caecal digesta compared to the control group. Enteric Lactobacillus significantly decreased (p < 0.05) in EWPs fed antibiotics while it was unaffected by IgY treatment. Dietary supplementation with anti‐E. coli IgY has the potential to suppress enteric E. coli growth, but not Lactobacillus, Clostridium and Bifidobacterium. This promotes and maintains a healthy EWP intestinal environment. These findings suggest that IgY may be used as an alternative to antibiotics in EWP diets.