INTRODUCTION Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is a common and serious condition that can lead to poor outcomes in critically ill patients. To make a correct diagnosis and improve the outcome of patients with DIC, several organisations have put forward DIC scoring systems. However, which criteria is the best to use for diagnosing DIC remains a continuing controversy even though many studies have been conducted to validate the diagnostic accuracy of each DIC scoring system. METHODS AND ANALYSIS We will conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the diagnostic accuracy of DIC criteria for the prediction of mortality in critically ill adult patients. The primary objective is to assess the predictive values of the DIC criteria of Japanese Association for Acute Medicine, International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis, Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare, Korean Society on Thrombosis and Hemostasis and Chinese Diagnostic Scoring System for 28-day mortality. We will search electronic bibliographic databases such as MEDLINE, EMBASE and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. Two reviewers will independently screen titles and abstracts, perform full article reviews and extract study data. We will report study characteristics and assess methodological quality using the Quality of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-II tool. If pooling is appropriate, we will compute parameter estimates using bivariate random-effects and hierarchical summary receiver operating characteristic models to produce summary receiver operating curves, summary operating points (pooled sensitivity and specificity) and 95% confidence regions around the summary operating points. Clinical and methodological subgroup and sensitivity analyses will be performed to explore heterogeneity. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION This systematic review will help physicians diagnose DIC accurately and improve their clinical practice in critically ill settings. Approval from an ethics committee is not required. The findings will be disseminated through publication in a peer-reviewed journal. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER CRD42017079350.