OBJECTIVE To investigate the clinical manifestations, treatment, and outcome of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). METHODS The clinical data of 108 SARS in-patients were analyzed. RESULTS Among the 108 cases, 35 males (32.4%) and 73 females (67.6%), aged 37 +/- 9 (range 13 approximately 83 years), most were white-collar workers, medical workers accounting for 28.7%. 87.0% had a definite contact history. 20.4% were complicated by other internal diseases. The main clinical manifestations included fever, cough, pectoralgia, chest distress, headache, etc. Involvement of multiple organs was often. The incubation period was 2 approximately 14 days. The course included early stage, progressive stage, climax, and convalescence. Mild type accounted for 4.6%, common type 39.8%, severe type 20.4%, and extremely severe type 35.2%. At the early stage, white blood cell count, lymphocyte count and ratio of lymphocyte, proalbumin, transferring, CD(3)(+), CD(4)(+), CD(8)(+) cell count were remarkably decreased, and C-reactive protein, alpha-acid glycoprotein, and alpha(2)-globulin were remarkably increased. X-ray chest film showed solitary or multiple local exudative changes, mostly in pulmonary lower field. During the progressive stage the hyaline or consolidation images were enlarged. High solution CT showed solitary or multiple cotton wadding like images and ground glass-like or consolidation images. Hypoxemia was common. At the progressive stage application of adrenocortical hormones and non-invasive mechanical ventilation helped stop the progress of disease. Ninety-four cases were discharged, 14 cases died. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) regards SARS as one of epidemic febrile diseases. Treatment by combination of TCM and Western medicine was effective. CONCLUSION SARS mainly affects youth and people in their prime of life. It has its own characteristic clinical manifestations. The classification system of 5 types and 4 stages helps judge the condition. Treatment by combination of TCM and Western medicine is encouraged.