We aimed to demonstrate the feasibility and total cost of laparoscopy-assisted suprapubic salpingectomy (LASS), which utilises conventional open surgery equipment without any sealing or coagulation devices and reduces port sites compared to conventional laparoscopy (CL). Fifty-seven consecutive, age-matched patients presenting with a tubal pregnancy were enrolled. In the LASS group, a 10 mm reusable umbilical optical trocar and a 10 mm suprapubic trocar was used. The other 30 patients were managed with multiport CL. All of the patients were asked to use the visual analogue scale and Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale to evaluate their cosmetic satisfaction. The duration of surgery was 21.19 ± 2.33 minutes for the LASS group and 36.9 ± 4.9 minutes for the CL group (p < .001). The postoperative 6th-hour VAS score was 2.44 ± 0.5 for the LASS group and 3.03 ± 0.8 for the CL group (p: .005). All of the PSAS and OSAS parameter scores were significantly lower in LASS group than CL group. In conclusion, the LASS procedure is a feasible method for treating ectopic pregnancies with a shorter surgical duration, lower VAS scores, and better cosmetic scores than CL. Impact statement What is already known on this subject? Laparoscopy or laparotomy may be performed for the surgical management of ectopic pregnancy. Conventional laparoscopy has some advantages such as shorter hospital stay and recovery time and the better cosmetic results. However, the equipment used in conventional laparoscopy and single incision laparoscopy are more expensive than conventional open surgery equipment. What the results of this study add? Laparoscopy-assisted suprapubic salpingectomy (LASS) method has shorter operation time, lower VAS scores, better cosmetic scores and cheaper than conventional laparoscopy. What the implications are of these findings for clinical practice and/or further research? The LASS procedure looks like a feasible method for treating ectopic pregnancies and the feasibility of this procedure should be confirmed by a larger series of patients and randomised trials.