Abstract The aim of this article is to study systematically current evidence on status of arthroscopic surgeries during the COVID-19 pandemic. We aim to study (1) changes in global arthroscopic practices, (2) recommendations on reducing risk to patients and health care workers (HCW), (3) changes in follow-up protocols of these patients. Systematic search was carried out by two different reviewers using three different online databases for all studies published in the English language before April 2020. The total number of abstracts screened initially was 314. After screening of these abstracts, a total of 13 studies were included for the systematic review. Numbers of orthopaedic injuries have seen a sharp fall during this time. Most elective surgical facilities were also closed at this time. Most studies have recommended telemedicine as an essential medium of providing continued care to patients during COVID-19. Studies have recommended that a conservative approach should be preferred for most patients with ligament injuries, and alternative procedures that have less requirement for an operating room should be explored. Common recommendation in all studies is that procedures of more elective nature should be postponed to a safer time frame when the transmission of COVID-19 virus in the population has declined. When surgeries are resumed, there is a need for triage of arthroscopy procedures from more important or urgent to less important ones. Elective surgical procedures should preferably be started with patients with no co-morbidities and lesser risk of peri-operative complications. All patients undergoing surgery and health care personnels should have some screening for disease. Attempts should be made to have shortest hospital stay. Choice of anaesthetic procedure should emphasize on minimal aerosolization of the virus. Regional anaesthesia is the preferred choice as far as possible. Most guidelines have recommended that patient follow up should be made telephonically or on video-conferencing.