OBJECTIVE Superficial venous reflux disease has been treated with endovenous ablation techniques for more than 15 years. Thrombi discovered in the postoperative period are referred to as endovenous heat-induced thrombi (EHIT). In spite of the few studies of the ultrasound differentiation between EHIT and deep vein thrombi (DVT), there remains a paucity of literature regarding the evaluation of ultrasound examination and pathologic differentiation. METHODS Six Yorkshire cross swine underwent femoral vein thrombosis by suture ligation or endovenous radiofrequency ablation. At 1 week after the procedure, each femoral vein was imaged by color Duplex ultrasound and sent for histologic interpretation for differentiation between EHIT and DVT. Five blinded vascular surgery faculty, two vascular surgery fellows, and three vascular surgery residents reviewed the ultrasound images. RESULTS Thrombi associated with radiofrequency ablation demonstrated a greater degree of hypercellular response, fibroblastic reaction, and edema (3.42 vs 2.92; 3.75 vs 2.42; 2.83 vs 1.33). Specimens harvested from the iatrogenic-induced DVT swine demonstrated a more prolific response to trichrome staining (3.42 vs 2.67). Evidence of revascularization was found in all of the EHIT specimens but in 33% of DVT specimens. On the basis of histologic findings, the pathologist predicted correct modality 92% of the time. Subgroup analysis comparing paired specimens from each swine failed to demonstrate any marked pathologic differences. Recorded ultrasound images from EHIT and DVT samples were reviewed by fellows, residents, and vascular surgery staff to determine whether clot was stationary or free-floating (n = 111; 93%), evidence of retracted or adherent vein (n = 105; 88%), and absence of color flow (n = 102; 85%). The degree of occlusion (partial vs total) and degree of distention of a visualized vein were least likely to be agreed on by reviewers (n = 95; 79% each, respectively). In subgroup (DVT vs EHIT) analyses, the percentage agreement was greatest among vascular surgery fellows (89% and 92%) compared with residents (82% and 79%) and faculty (78% and 77%). CONCLUSIONS It is possible to differentiate the thrombus origin on pathologic examination but not clinically on ultrasound. Wide variability exists for ultrasound diagnosis of EHIT and de novo DVT. Care must be taken in evaluating post-treatment duplex scans to not assign diagnosis of EHIT when DVT may well be present and extending into the deep venous system. The modulation of collagen production in the treatment of DVT may be helpful in preventing vascular dysfunction and reducing the post-thrombotic changes. Further studies on injury after radiofrequency ablation and laser ablation are needed.