OBJECTIVE To describe epidemiologic features of an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in Dongcheng District, Beijing occurred in a period between March and May 2003. METHODS Data of SARS cases notified from Dongcheng District Center for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC)and supplemented by other channels were collected. Clinicians and officials of local hospitals were interviewed in groups and medical records of fatal cases of SARS were reviewed to verify the diagnosis. Stored serum specimens of the patients were detected for IgG antibody against SARS Co-V by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). All the data were input into dataset files by Microsoft Excel-2000 software and analyzed with SPSS version 10.0 software. RESULTS Outbreak of SARS in Dongcheng District started on March 14, 2003 with a peak in mid- and late April, and dropped in early May. A total of 572 reported cases were collected during this period in Dongcheng District, Beijing, and 99 of them were excluded from SARS, because of diagnosis of common cold, regular pneumonia, measles and rubella, etc. Actually, 473 SARS cases, which included 390 (82.5%) probable cases and 83 (17.5%) suspect cases, were analyzed. About 90% of the probable cases were positive for IgG antibody. Attack rate of SARS in permanent residents of Dongcheng District was 28.3 per 100 000. Forty-one of them died, with a case-fatality rate of 8.7%. Persons were all susceptible to infection of SARS Co-V, with the highest proportion at ages of 20-50 years, which accounted for 68.7% of the total cases. Average age of the patients at their onset was 40.7 years. No gender difference in SARS cases was found. Number of SARS cases in health-care workers (HCWs) accounted for 18.0% and that in retired workers accounted for 15.4% of the total cases. Cases occurred in all 10 sub-districts of Dongcheng, with the highest in Beixinqiao and Andingmen Sub-districts. Totally, 230 of the 572 notified cases (40.2%) were hospitalized at local hospitals under the jurisdiction of Dongcheng District. Eighteen of 85 cases of SARS occurred in HCWs of local hospitals, accounting for 4.5% of the total number of HCWs working at wards caring for SARS patients or fever clinics. There were 34.7% of SARS cases without any histories of contact before the onset of the disease. Familial aggregation phenomena were observed in 41.8% of the cases and 18.1% of households. And 7.4% (attack rate) of those exposed to SARS cases suffered from the illness during the periods of quarantine. CONCLUSIONS SARS appeared to be infectious in origin and caused outbreak in Dongcheng District, Beijing introduced by an imported case traveling from Hong Kong in a period between March and May 2003. People are all susceptible to infection of SARS Co-V, which mainly threatens the young adults and the middle-aged, as well as HCWs and the retired workers. The main mode of transmission is direct exposure to SARS patients in a near distance at hospitals or families via droplets spread. Prevention and control of SARS should be focused on early isolation of patients and quarantine for close contacts. Current available measures to prevent and control SARS are proved to be effective.