Neonates are at increased risk for bacterial sepsis as a result of immature immunity. We established that the immune suppressive cytokine interleukin (IL)-27 is elevated in early life. In the present work, we hypothesized that increased levels of IL-27 may predispose the neonatal population to more severe infection during sepsis. In a neonatal sepsis model, systemic IL-27 levels continued to rise during infection. Peripheral tissue analysis revealed systemic IL-27 expression, while myeloid cell profiling identified Gr-1 and F4/80-expressing cells as the most abundant producers of IL-27 during infection. Increased IL-27 levels were consistent with increased mortality that was improved in WSX-1-/- mice that lack a functional IL-27 receptor. Infected WSX-1-/- pups exhibited improved weight gain and reduced morbidity. IL-27 signaling in WT mice promoted increased bacterial burdens and systemic inflammation compared to WSX-1-/- neonates. This was consistent with more efficient bacterial killing by Ly6B.2+ myeloid cells and macrophages from WSX-1-deficient compared to wild-type neonates. Live animal imaging further supported a more severe and disseminated infection in WT neonates. This is the first report to describe the impact of elevated early life IL-27 on the host response in neonates while also defining the cell and tissue sources of cytokine. IL-27 is frequently associated with suppressed inflammation. In contrast, our findings demonstrate that IL-27 promotes inflammation during neonatal sepsis by directly compromising control of bacteria that drive the inflammatory response. Collectively, our results suggest that IL-27 represents a therapeutic target to limit susceptibility and improve infectious outcomes in neonatal sepsis. IMPORTANCE A number of differences in the neonatal immune response compared with adults have been well described. However, a mechanistic understanding of what needs to be overcome in the neonate to generate a more protective immune response during acute bacterial infection has been limited. The work described here helps fill the gap of what is necessary to overcome in order to achieve improved host response to infection. To further the novelty, IL-27 has not previously been attributed to dysfunction or deficiency in neonatal immunity. Our results enhance the understanding of IL-27 biology in the neonatal population while providing evidence that elevated IL-27 levels limit a protective immune response and are detrimental during neonatal sepsis. Strategies aimed at targeting circulating IL-27 concentrations early in life have the potential to improve control of bacterial infection in neonates.