BACKGROUND Since the early 1990s, the laparoscopic approach to inguinal hernia repair using three ports has gained increased popularity worldwide. Recently, single-incision laparoscopic surgery to reduce the invasiveness of traditional laparoscopy further is under development. This study aimed to assess the safety and feasibility of the single-port approach for laparoscopic totally extraperitoneal (TEP) repair of inguinal hernia and to report the authors' initial experience using the TriPort system. METHODS Between 18 October 2008 and 1 April 2009, 19 single-incision laparoscopic TEP repairs of inguinal hernia were performed for 16 patients at the Royal Surrey County Hospital, Guildford, United Kingdom. Data regarding patient demographics, type of hernia, operating time, complications, postoperative hospital stay, and recurrence were prospectively collected. The length of the incision at the time of the operation and at a clinic follow-up visit also was measured. RESULTS All 16 patients were men, ranging in age from 21 to 87 years. Of the 16 men, 13 had a unilateral inguinal hernia. For 7 of the 13 men, the hernia was on the left side. The median operating time was 40 min for unilateral hernia and 70 min for bilateral hernia. There were no intraoperative complications and no deaths. Discharge was on the same day for 12 of the men, and within 24 h for the remaining 4 men. Minor wound complications developed for two men. One man reported transient pain in his testicle. There was no evidence of early recurrence during a median follow-up period of 72.5 days. The median incision length was 30 mm, and the median scar length at the clinic follow-up visit was 25 mm. CONCLUSION The authors' experience has shown that single-port laparoscopic TEP inguinal hernia repair with the TriPort system is safe and feasible. Prospective randomized studies comparing single-access and conventional multiport laparoscopic TEP repairs with long-term follow-up evaluation are needed to confirm the authors' initial experience.