BACKGROUND: There is an increasing body of research demonstrating stress, burnout, and compassion fatigue among those working in obstetrics and gynaecology. The literature is lacking with respect to targeted interventions aimed at improving staff wellbeing. AIMS: To investigate whether an intervention which increases support for staff is feasible to implement and effective at improving staff wellbeing. METHODS: This study was conducted in a tertiary university teaching maternity hospital. All doctors in training (DITs) (N = 28) and midwives (N = 69) working in the delivery suite were invited to participate. Wellbeing was assessed by measuring burnout, compassion fatigue, and perceived stress using validated questionnaires. These were distributed pre-intervention and 6 months after implementation of the interventions. The support interventions consisted of posters promoting self-care, team bonding sessions, and end of shift meetings. RESULTS: Eighteen (64%) DITs and 22 (31%) midwives returned pre-intervention questionnaires. Thirteen (18%) midwives retuned post-intervention questionnaires, of which five midwives (7%) returned both the pre-intervention questionnaire and the post-intervention questionnaire. Eighty-seven percent of participants were experiencing emotional exhaustion pre-intervention. There was a statistically significant decrease in the Professional Quality of Life burnout score from pre-intervention (M = 25.8) to post-intervention (M = 21.4), p = 0.02. End of shift meetings were discontinued after 5 weeks due to low attendance. End of shift meetings provided an opportunity for support and debriefing; however, the timing of these sessions impaired their long-term feasibility. CONCLUSION: DITs and midwives of this sample are experiencing high levels of burnout and compassion fatigue. End of shift meetings for midwives and team bonding sessions for DITs may positively impact on wellbeing, but in current format, they are not feasible for long-term implementation. The low level of participation highlights a challenge in implementing institution-wide support interventions.