It is well established that rotaviruses of group A are the most important cause of severe diarrhoea in children. The causes of most cases of infectious diarrhoea still remain unidentified, however, and there must be other viruses to be found. 'Novel' rotaviruses have recently been discovered, mainly in animals (serogroups B and C in pigs and humans, D in birds, and one or more further groups in sheep and other mammals). Except for the group B virus which has caused widespread outbreaks of quite severe diarrhoea in adults in China (still not reported from outside China) these novel rotaviruses are rarities in the human and probably represent uncommon zoonotic infections. We speculate that the Chinese virus might have arisen by reassortment of genetic segments of animal group B viruses or perhaps by mutation, and so became infectious for man. The problem of identifying and determining the importance of small round viruses is reviewed. It seems likely that the group of small, round structured viruses, including Norwalk and the viruses of plainly calicivirus morphology, are all representatives of a whole group of enteric caliciviruses. Until they can be more easily cultivated it will be difficult to make diagnostic reagents available to all. Astroviruses and genuine parvoviruses have been found by many people in many countries. Astroviruses are probably more important as pathogens in lambs than in children or calves; parvoviruses can only be established as significant in epidemics. The coronavirus-like particles, first found in Vellore and Bristol, are still enigmatic and their role in diarrhoea is uncertain. Toroviridae, recently discovered as causes of diarrhoea in ungulates, do not seem to be at all important as causes of diarrhoea in humans. Possibly fruitful approaches to future searches are outlined: firstly to make more extensive use of immuno-electron microscopy; and secondly to try to improve existing tissue culture systems to make them more sensitive to enteric viruses.