Objective: The aim of this article was to study the potential antivirus and fever reducing mechanisms of Xiaochaihu Decoction (XCHD) on novel coronavirus pneumonia based on network pharmacology and molecular docking method. Methods: Firstly, the potential targets and pathways of XCHD on fever were analyzed using network pharmacology. Compounds and potential targets in XCHD were screened using TCMSP and PharmMapper databases. The targets in fever reducing were identified from OMMI and Genecards databases. The protein-protein interaction network was established by String database to analyze key targets. The gene oncology (GO) analysis and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) analysis of key targets were also conducted to generate the relative pathways based on DAVID and KOBAS 3.0 databases, respectively. The compound-target-pathway network was established using Cytoscape 3.2.7. In addition, we used molecular docking method to identify the crucial compounds with higher connectivity on SARS-CoV-2 and the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). ACE2 has been identified as the key target of SARS-CoV-2 entering cells. The possible binding sites of compounds on SARS-CoV-2 and ACE2 were predicted. Results: Network pharmacology analysis indicated that 165 active compounds and 168 relative targets were selected. A total of 7006 targets related to fever were identified. In addition, 141 potential targets of XCH on fever were identified. Totally, 292 GO terms of XCHD on fever and 30 pathways were identified using GO and KEGG analysis. Furthermore, molecular docking indicated that main active compounds in XCHD exhibited higher affinity with both SARS-CoV-2 and ACE2. Beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, 3’-hydroxy-4’-O-methylglabridin were top three candidates with highest affinity. Conclusion: In summary, our study identified the potential mechanisms of XCHD on fever. Besides, Beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, 3’-hydroxy-4’-O-methylglabridin could be the key compounds to exert anti-viral effects against SARS-CoV-2. Our prediction also provided the research fields to further study the mechanisms of XCH on SARS-CoV-2 infection in future.