An emphasis on biosecurity in the cattle industry was made over the years to improve animal and public health. Nevertheless, the level of implementation of biosecurity measures (BSM) remains largely insufficient due to certain constraints. It is therefore necessary to prioritize the different BSM to be applied in accordance with the individual context and the main infectious diseases affecting cattle. Previous prioritization exercises of infectious diseases were neither specific to Belgium nor based on an exhaustive list of diseases. This study aimed at classifying the most important infectious diseases affecting cattle in Belgium. A list of 74 cattle infectious diseases reported in Europe was compiled based on a literature review. Through an online survey, Belgian rural veterinary practitioners (RVP) were asked to assign a score to each disease according to their frequency (question 1), their trends estimated between 2013‐15 (question 2), and finally to list the five most important diseases for adult cattle (question 3). Respectively, 107 and 93 RVP answered the first two questions and the last one. Results of the survey were used to classify the diseases based on their frequency, trends, and importance through an additional weighting system and a subsequent regression tree analysis. Belgian laboratory databases and previous disease prioritization exercises were also analysed and taken into account as additional data sources. For the most important diseases identified (those ranked as important by the three data sources), a literature review was performed in PubMed to identify their related risk factors and BSM. A total of 48 infectious diseases were classified as important in Belgium with six of them considered as important from the three data sources: bovine respiratory diseases (BRD), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD), infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), Q fever, and salmonellosis. Their related BSM should be prioritized in terms of BSM implementation.