Transcallosal fibers facilitate interhemispheric networks involved in motor tasks. Despite their clinical relevance, interhemispheric motor control systems have not been completely defined in the developing brain. The objective of this study was to examine the developmental profile of transcallosal inhibition in healthy children and adolescents. Nineteen typically developing right-handed participants were recruited. Two transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) paradigms assessed transcallosal inhibition: ipsilateral silent periods (iSP) and paired-pulse interhemispheric inhibition (IHI). TMS was applied to the motor hotspot of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Resting motor threshold (RMT), iSP latency, duration and suppression strength, and paired-pulse IHI were measured from both hemispheres. The Purdue Pegboard Test assessed unimanual motor function. Hemispheric differences were evident for RMT and iSP latency and suppression strength, where the left hemisphere had a lower RMT, prolonged latency, and greater suppression strength. iSP duration showed hemispheric symmetry. RMT and iSP latency decreased with age, whereas iSP suppression strength increased. Girls showed shorter iSP latency. Children typically displayed IHI, although hemispheric differences were observed. iSP suppression strength was uniquely associated with IHI within individuals. iSP duration correlated with motor performance. TMS can characterize transcallosal inhibition in normal children and adolescents with effects of age, directionality, sex, and motor performance. Establishing this developmental profile of interhemispheric interactions may advance understanding and therapeutic strategies for pediatric motor disorders such as cerebral palsy.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Here we demonstrate that transcranial magnetic stimulation can characterize transcallosal inhibition in normal children and adolescents with effects of age, directionality, handedness, and motor performance. Interestingly, we also demonstrated sex effects, possibly related to the differing developmental profiles of boys and girls. Establishing this developmental profile of interhemispheric interactions may advance understanding and therapeutic strategies for pediatric motor disorders such as cerebral palsy.