BACKGROUND: Epidemiologic studies show that cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript prepropeptide (CARTPT) gene polymorphism modifies diet-obesity relationships. However, the interaction between CARTPT gene polymorphism and diet quality indices have not been investigated yet. The current study was aimed to evaluate the interaction between major dietary indices including Diet Quality Index-International (DQI-I) and Healthy Eating Index (HEI)-2015 and CARTPT gene rs2239670 variants among apparently healthy obese Iranians. METHODS: This cross-sectional study was carried out by employing 288 apparently healthy obese adults aged 20–50 years with a BMI of 30–40 kg/m(2). Diet quality was evaluated by Diet Quality Index-International (DQI-I) and Healthy Eating Index-2015 (HEI-2015) using a 132-items semi-quantitative validated food frequency questionnaire. The CARTPT gene rs2239670 polymorphism was genotyped by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR–RFLP) technique. Blood concentrations of glycemic markers, lipid profile, α-melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP) were also measured. ANCOVA multivariate interaction model was used to analyze gene-diet interactions. RESULTS: The significant interactions were identified between CARTPT gene polymorphism and HEI, affecting BMR (P(Interaction) = 0.003), serum glucose (P(Interaction) = 0.009) and high density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL concentrations (P(Interaction) = 0.03) after adjusting for the effects of sex and age. Also we found gene-diet interaction between CARTPT genotypes and DQI-I in terms of fat mass (FM; P(Interaction) = 0.02), waist circumference (WC; P(Interaction) < 0.001), body mass index (BMI; P(Interaction) < 0.001), basal metabolic rate (BMR, P(Interaction) < 0.001), serum fasting glucose (P(Interaction) < 0.01) and AgRP (P(Interaction) = 0.05) in individuals even after adjusting for potential confounders. CONCLUSION: Current study showed the effects of interaction between CARTPT genotype with adherence to HEI and DQI-I scores on obesity-related anthropometric and metabolic risk-factors.