BACKGROUND Robot-assisted radical cystectomy (RARC) with intracorporeal neobladder reconstruction is a challenging procedure. The need for surgical skills and the long operative times have led to concern about its reproducibility. OBJECTIVE To illustrate our technique for RARC and totally intracorporeal orthotopic Padua ileal bladder. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS From August 2012 to February 2014, 45 patients underwent this technique at a single tertiary referral centre. SURGICAL PROCEDURE RARC, extended pelvic lymph node dissection, and intracorporeal partly stapled neobladder. Surgical steps are demonstrated in the accompanying video. MEASUREMENTS Demographics, clinical, and pathological data were collected. Perioperative, 2-yr oncologic and 2-yr functional outcomes were reported. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS Intraoperative transfusion or conversion to open surgery was not necessary in any case and intracorporeal neobladder was successfully performed in all 45 patients. Median operative time was 305min (interquartile range [IQR]: 282-345). Median estimated blood loss was 210ml (IQR: 50-250). Median hospital stay was 9 d (IQR: 7-12). The overall incidence of perioperative, 30-d and 180-d complications were 44.4%, 57.8%, and 77.8%, respectively, while severe complications occurred in17.8%, 17.8%, and 35.5%, respectively. Two-yr daytime and night-time continence rates were 73.3% and 55.5%, respectively. Two-yr disease free survival, cancer specific survival, and overall survival rates were 72.5%, 82.3%, and 82.4%, respectively. The small sample size and high caseload of the centre might affect the reproducibility of these results. CONCLUSIONS Our experience supports the feasibility of totally intracorporeal neobladder following RARC. Operative times and perioperative complication rates are likely to be reduced with increasing experience. PATIENT SUMMARY We report the outcomes of our first 45 consecutive patients who underwent robot-assisted radical cystectomy with intracorporeal neobladders. Perioperative, oncologic, and functional outcomes support this technique as a feasible and safe surgical option in tertiary referral centres.