More than 100 drugs are used to treat the many different cancers. They can be divided into agents with relatively broad, non-targeted specificity and targeted drugs developed on the basis of a more refined understanding of individual cancers and directed at specific molecular targets on different cancer cells. Individual drugs in both groups have been classified on the basis of their mechanism of action in killing cancer cells. The targeted drugs include proteasome inhibitors, toxic chimeric proteins and signal transduction inhibitors such as tyrosine kinase (non-receptor and receptor), serine/threonine kinase, histone deacetylase and mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors. Increasingly used targeted vascular (VEGF) and platelet-derived endothelial growth factor blockade can provoke a range of pathological consequences. Many of the non-targeted drugs are cytotoxic, suppressing haematopoiesis as well as provoking cutaneous eruptions and vascular, lung and liver injury. Cytotoxic side effects of the targeted drugs occur less often and usually with less severity, but they show their own unusual adverse effects including, for example, a lengthened QT interval, a characteristic papulopustular rash, nail disorders and a hand–foot skin reaction variant. The term hypersensitivity is widely used across a number of disciplines but not always with the same definition in mind, and the terminology needs to be standardised. This is particularly apparent in cancer chemotherapy where anti-neoplastic drug-induced thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, vascular disorders, liver injury and lung disease as well as many dermatological manifestations sometimes have an immune basis. The most insidious of all adverse consequences of targeted therapies, however, are tumour adaptation, increased malignancy and the invasive metastatic switch seen with anti-angiogenic drugs that inhibit the VEGF-A pathway. Adverse reactions to 44 non-targeted and 33 targeted, frequently used, chemotherapeutic drugs are presented together with discussions of diagnosis, premedications, desensitizations and importance of understanding the mechanisms underlying the various drug-induced reactions. There is need for wide-ranging acceptance of what constitutes a hypersensitivity reaction and for allergists to be more involved in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of chemotherapeutic drug-induced hypersensitivity reactions.