INTRODUCTION Laparoscopic procedures for pancreatic surgery have been significantly improved recently; however, only a limited number of successful laparoscopic or laparoscopy-assisted pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) have been reported. The limitations could be attributed to the complexity of the reconstruction procedures under laparoscopic observation and the high incidence of complications. Postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) has been regarded traditionally as the most frequent major complication and is a potentially serious and life-threatening event. It remains the single most important cause of morbidity after PD and contributes significantly to prolonged mortality. Several modified methods of pancreas anastomosis were introduced to prevent POPF. However, few methods with a satisfactory leakage rate have yet to be seen. Collating principle of theoretical mechanics, we introduce a new method of reconstruction by performing an asymmetric sleeving-joint pancreaticojejunostomy (SJPJ). The aim of this study is to summarize the results of a new technique that is designed to decrease the POPF. METHODS From January 2004 to December 2010, SJPJ was performed on 86 patients undergoing PD by 1 surgeon: a laparoscopic reconstruction was completed in 9 cases, a hand-assisted laparoscopic reconstruction in 2 cases, and an open SJPJ reconstruction in 75 cases. DISCUSSION We used SJPJ, an asymmetric pancreaticojejunostomy (PJ). The time of operation ranged from 300 minutes to 640 minutes. Postoperatively there were no major morbidities and no deaths. Although POPF was observed in the laparoscopic SJPJ group with pancreatic adenocarcinoma, 3 patients developed POPF in the open SJPJ group with ampullary adenocarcinoma (n=1) and pancreatic adenocarcinoma (n=2). The POPF rate was 9.30% in the open SJPJ group and 9.10% in the laparoscopic SJPJ group. The SJPJ procedure facilitates PJ, both laparoscopically and in open surgery. It is safe, effective, and feasible in experience hands.