OBJECTIVE To report our single-center initial experience using the Trevo XP ProVue Retriever 3×20 mm ('Baby Trevo') for distal intracranial occlusions. METHODS We performed a retrospective review of our interventional database for consecutive patients who underwent treatment for acute ischemic stroke with the Baby Trevo device between February and December 2014. RESULTS Of 134 patients treated during the study period, 8 underwent treatment with the Baby Trevo for distal occlusions. Their mean age was 51±20 years, 5 (62.5%) were male, mean baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale was 19±5. The mean interval between the time the patient was last-known normal to groin puncture was 527±285 min, and the overall procedural length was 110±26 min. Intra-arterial tissue plasminogen activator was used in 5 (62.5%) cases. The device was used for a total of 10 branches: five middle cerebral artery (four superior M3 and one inferior M3), three anterior cerebral arteries (two pericallosal and one callosomarginal), and two posterior cerebral arteries (one P2 and one P3) occlusions. All patients achieved complete recanalization of the artery targeted by the Baby Trevo (arterial occlusive lesion 3). Good capillary reperfusion (TICI 2b-3) was noted in 6 (75%) cases. One pass was performed in 7 vessels and 2 passes in three branches. Vasospasm was noted in 5 (62.5%) of the vessels and fully responded to intra-arterial vasodilator infusion. Follow-up MRI revealed no infarct within the territory vascularized by the artery targeted by the Baby Trevo in 4 cases, partial infarct in 5, and complete infarct in 1. Two patients had parenchymal hematomas (one PH1 and one PH2). No vessel perforations, dissections, or subarachnoid hemorrhage were noted. CONCLUSIONS Our initial data suggest that treatment of distal cerebrovascular occlusions with the Trevo XP 3×20 mm Retriever is feasible. Although this device emerges as a promising technology for small and tortuous distal intracranial vessels, larger studies are still necessary to establish its safety and clinical benefit.