A1 One health advances and successes in comparative medicine and translational research Cheryl Stroud A2 Dendritic cell-targeted gorilla adenoviral vector for cancer vaccination for canine melanoma Igor Dmitriev, Elena Kashentseva, Jeffrey N. Bryan, David T. Curiel A3 Viroimmunotherapy for malignant melanoma in the companion dog model Jeffrey N. Bryan, David Curiel, Igor Dmitriev, Elena Kashentseva, Hans Rindt, Carol Reinero, Carolyn J. Henry A4 Of mice and men (and dogs!): development of a commercially licensed xenogeneic DNA vaccine for companion animals with malignant melanoma Philip J. Bergman A5 Successful immunotherapy with a recombinant HER2-expressing Listeria monocytogenes in dogs with spontaneous osteosarcoma paves the way for advances in pediatric osteosarcoma Nicola J. Mason, Josephine S. Gnanandarajah, Julie B. Engiles, Falon Gray, Danielle Laughlin, Anita Gaurnier-Hausser, Anu Wallecha, Margie Huebner, Yvonne Paterson A6 Human clinical development of ADXS-HER2 Daniel O’Connor A7 Leveraging use of data for both human and veterinary benefit Laura S. Treml A8 Biologic replacement of the knee: innovations and early clinical results James P. Stannard A9 Mizzou BioJoint Center: a translational success story James L. Cook A10 University and industry translational partnership: from the lab to commercialization Marc Jacobs A11 Beyond docking: an evolutionarily guided OneHealth approach to drug discovery Gerald J. Wyckoff, Lee Likins, Ubadah Sabbagh, Andrew Skaff A12 Challenges and opportunities for data applications in animal health: from precision medicine to precision husbandry Amado S. Guloy A13 A cloud-based programmable platform for health Harlen D. Hays A14 Comparative oncology: One Health in action Amy K. LeBlanc A15 Companion animal diseases bridge the translational gap for human neurodegenerative disease Joan R. Coates, Martin L. Katz, Leslie A. Lyons, Gayle C. Johnson, Gary S. Johnson, Dennis P. O’Brien A16 Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene therapy Dongsheng Duan A17 Polycystic kidney disease: cellular mechanisms to emerging therapies James P. Calvet A18 The domestic cat as a large animal model for polycystic kidney disease Leslie A. Lyons, Barbara Gandolfi A19 The support of basic and clinical research by the Polycystic Kidney Disease Foundation David A. Baron A20 Using naturally occurring large animal models of human disease to enable clinical translation: treatment of arthritis using autologous stromal vascular fraction in dogs Mark L. Weiss A21 Regulatory requirements regarding clinical use of human cells, tissues, and tissue-based products Debra A. Webster A22 Regenerative medicine approaches to Type 1 diabetes treatment Francis N. Karanu A23 The zoobiquity of canine diabetes mellitus, man’s best friend is a friend indeed-islet transplantation Edward J. Robb A24 One Medicine: a development model for cellular therapy of diabetes Robert J. Harman