BACKGROUND Chronic radiation proctopathy (CRP) is a common sequela occurring even many years after pelvic radiation. Current ablative therapies for bleeding ectatic vessels have the potential for deep tissue injury leading to ulcerations, perforation, and fistulas. Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) therapy avoids deep tissue injury and is a promising treatment for CRP. OBJECTIVE To assess the long-term safety and efficacy of RFA for the treatment of CRP. DESIGN Multicenter, retrospective analysis of a prospectively collected database. SETTING Veterans Affairs Boston Healthcare System, Massachusetts; Sarasota Memorial Hospital and Suncoast Endoscopy of Sarasota, Florida. PATIENTS A total of 39 consecutive patients with CRP. INTERVENTIONS Endoscopic RFA of CRP. MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS The primary endpoint of the study was complete resolution of rectal bleeding. Secondary endpoints included visually scored improvement of CRP on endoscopic follow-up by using a rectal telangiectasia density (RTD) grading score, improvement in hemoglobin level, and adverse events related to the procedure. RESULTS A total of 39 male patients (mean [± standard deviation {SD}] age 72.9 ± 6.6 years) were included in the study. The mean number of RFA sessions was 1.49 (median 1, interquartile range [IQR] 1-2, range 1-4), with a mean interval of 18 weeks between sessions. Rectal bleeding stopped completely in all patients during the mean follow-up of 28 months (range 7-53 months). A significant improvement occurred in the mean (± SD) hemoglobin level from 11.8 ± 2 to 13.5 ± 1.6 g % (P < .0001). Endoscopic severity also improved significantly with an improvement in the median RTD score from 3 (IQR 2-3) to 0 (IQR 0-1) (P < .0001). Treatment with RFA led to discontinuation of blood transfusion and iron therapy in 92% and 82% patients, respectively. LIMITATIONS Retrospective analysis, lack of control group. CONCLUSION RFA therapy led to complete resolution of rectal bleeding in all treated CRP patients, with improvement in clinical and endoscopic indices without any major adverse events. Further controlled studies are needed to establish RFA as the endoscopic therapy of choice for treatment of CRP.