Our aim was to evaluate the potential role of standard extrinsically activated thromboelastometry (EXTEM) assay in the early detection of neonatal sepsis. We studied 91 hospitalized neonates categorized in two groups: group A included 35 neonates with confirmed sepsis, while group B included 56 neonates with suspected sepsis; 274 healthy neonates served as controls. Whenever sepsis was suspected, EXTEM assay was performed, Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology Perinatal Extension (SNAPPE) and Tοllner score were calculated, and clinical findings and laboratory results were recorded. Septic neonates had significantly prolonged clotting time (CT) and clot formation time (CFT), and reduced maximum clot firmness (MCF), compared to neonates with suspected sepsis (p values 0.001, 0.001, and 0.009, respectively) or healthy neonates (p values 0.001, 0.001, and 0.021, respectively). EXTEM parameters (CT, CFT, MCF) demonstrated a more intense hypocoagulable profile in septic neonates with hemorrhagic diathesis than those without (p values 0.021, 0.007, and 0.033, respectively). In septic neonates, CFT was correlated with platelet count, SNAPPE, Tollner score, and day of full enteral feeding (p values 0.01, 0.02, 0.05, and 0.03, respectively). CONCLUSIONS A ROTEM hypocoagulable profile at admission seems promising for the early detection of sepsis in neonates while the degree of hypocoagulation may be associated with sepsis severity. What is Known: • The early phase of septicemia might be difficult to be recognized in neonates. In adult septic patients, the diagnostic and prognostic role of thromboelastometry (ROTEM) have been extensively investigated. • Limited data are available on the role of ROTEM as an indicator of early neonatal sepsis. What is New: • ROTEM measurements indicate an early appearance of hypocoagulability in neonatal sepsis, while the degree of hypocoagulation might be associated with severity of sepsis. • ROTEM could be a useful tool in the early detection of sepsis in neonates.