Background: The curtailment of social gatherings as well as lack of online academic engagement, due to the COVID-19 lockdown, could have potentially damaging effects on the psychological state of university students in Nigeria. This study examined the prevalence of anxiety and depression, including associated factors and coping methods among undergraduate students in a Nigerian university. It also examined the association between psychological state and family functioning. Methods: The study design was cross-sectional and involved 386 undergraduate students across the main faculties. The university's ethical review board approved the study with approval number UI/EC/20/0242. An online questionnaire, using Google form, was circulated among the students through their faculty representatives. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (HADs) was used in assessing anxiety and depression, while family functioning was assessed using the McMaster Family Assessment Device, (FAD). Data was entered into Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS), and analysis carried out using descriptive statistics, chi-square, independent t-test, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA), Post-Hoc analysis and linear logistics regression, at 0.05. Results: The mean age was 21 {+/-} 2.9 years, with a female population of 60.1%. Prevalence of anxiety and depression were 41.5% and 31.9% respectively. Students in health-related faculties were significantly less anxious than those in other faculties. Inability to afford three square meals, negative family functioning, having a chronic illness and living in a State/Region with a high incidence of COVID-19, was significantly associated with depression. These factors jointly accounted for 14% of depression seen in undergraduate students. Most of the students coped by engaging themselves in social media, watching television/movies and participating in other online skill development programmes. Conclusion: There was a high prevalence of anxiety and depression among university students with poor family functioning, inability to afford three meals/day, living in a state with a high incidence of COVID-19 and having a chronic illness, contributing to depression. Measures need to be taken to support undergraduate students and their families to prevent the negative consequences of poor mental health. Keywords: COVID-19; lockdown; undergraduate students; anxiety; depression; psychological state; family-functioning, coping.