INTRODUCTION General approval of laparoscopy as well as persistent urge to minimize operative trauma with still existing difficulties in putting natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) into practice have contributed to the introduction of laparoscopic operations through one incision in the umbilicus named single incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS). AIM The main aim of this study was to assess the benefits to patients of applying SILS cholecystectomy as a method of gallbladder removal based on the comparison with classic four-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. MATERIAL AND METHODS Between 18.03.2009 and 09.12.2009, 100 patients were included in the study and they underwent elective gallbladder removal by applying the laparoscopic technique. All patients were divided into two equal groups: qualified for SILS cholecystectomy (group I) and qualified for classic four-trocar laparoscopic cholecystectomy (group II), whose ASA physical status was I and II. BMI was limited to 35 kg/m(2). Outcome measures included operative time, intensity of postoperative pain and consumption of painkillers, hospital stay, need for conversion, complications, and cosmetic effects. RESULTS Mean operating time in group I was 66 min and in group II 47.2 min. Intensity of pain evaluated by using the visual analogue scale (VAS) 6 h after the operation in group I was 3.49 and in group II 4.53, whereas 24 h after the operation in group I it was 1.18 and in group II 1.55. The painkiller requirement in group I was smaller than in group II. Mean hospital stay after the operation in group I was 1.33 days and in group II 1.96 days. There were 4 conversions in group I and one conversion in group II. Among the complications in group I there were noted 2 cases of right pneumothorax, 1 case of choleperitonitis and 4 complications connected with wound healing. There was one injury of the duodenum and one wound infection in group II. CONCLUSIONS Single-incision laparoscopic surgery cholecystectomy can be an alternative to classic laparoscopic cholecystectomy, especially with reference to young people with body mass index less than 35 kg/m(2), without serious systemic diseases, operated on electively due to benign gallbladder diseases.