INTRODUCTION Maintaining the existing FLS test centers requires considerable investment in human and financial resources. It can also be particularly challenging for those outside of North America to become certified due to the limited number of international test centers. Preliminary work suggests that it is possible to reliably score the FLS manual skills component remotely using low-cost videoconferencing technology. Significant work remains to ensure that testing procedures adhere to standards defined by SAGES for this approach to be considered equivalent to standard on-site testing. OBJECTIVE To validate the integrity and validity of the FLS manual skills examination administered remotely in a real-world environment according to FLS testing protocols and to evaluate participants' experience with the setting. METHODS Individuals with various levels of training from the University of Toronto completed a pre- and a post-test questionnaire. Participants presented to one of the two FLS testing rooms available for the study, each connected via Skype to a separate room with a FLS proctor who administered and scored the test remotely (RP). An on-site proctor (OP) was present in the room as a control. An invigilator was also present in the testing room to follow directions from the RP and ensure the integrity of test materials. RESULTS Twenty-one participants were recruited, and 20 completed the test. There was no significant difference between scores by RP and OP. Interrater reliability between the RP and OP was excellent. One critical error was missed by the RP, but this would not have affected the test outcome. Participants reported being highly satisfied. CONCLUSION We demonstrate that proctors located remotely can administer the FLS skills test in a secure and reliable fashion, with excellent interrater reliability compared to an on-site proctor. Remote proctoring of the FLS examination could become a strategy to increase certification rates while containing costs.