Influenza A virus and secondary bacterial infection may have remote effects in the form of cardiovascular complications or fibrosis in different organs. However, the mechanisms governing the development of complications remain poorly studied. The present work reports the comparative assessment of the functional changes which take place in human ECV-304 endothelial cell sublines obtained previously by the long-term culturing of cells after exposure to varying infectious doses (IDs) of influenza A virus, and/or bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). It has been demonstrated that, in the course of long-term culturing (six passages) after exposure to pathogenic agents (influenza virus and/or LPS), endothelial cells maintain changes in their migratory activity, permeability, and expression of mRNA for cytokines TNFα and TGFβ (along with the changes in their proliferation activity, which has been demonstrated earlier). The pattern of changes depended on the type of the agent (agents) to which the cells were exposed. The differences in migratory activity (which was at its maximum 4 h after wounding) between the cell sublines at the sixth passage correlated with the differences in their proliferation activity at the first passage (proliferation data were obtained previously). In particular, an increase in migration and proliferation was observed in the sublines exposed to low virus doses (ECV-1ID), as well as exposed to LPS (ECV-LPS), while the suppression of migration and proliferation was observed in the subline exposed to high virus doses (ECV-1000ID). In the ECV-1ID, ECV-LPS, and most notably in ECV-1ID + LPS sublines, we detected an increase in the expression of mRNA for cytokines TNFα and TGFβ, which, however, didn’t lead to the induction of apoptosis. We have also demonstrated an increase in cell permeability in the analyzed sublines, which was indicated by a decrease in the expression of the mRNAs for the genes encoding occludin and ZO-1, the tight junctions proteins . This paper also reports an evaluation of the effects of the antiviral preparations rimantadine and alpisarin on the functional state of cell sublines. As a result, it has been demonstrated that these drugs may be able to prevent the development of the pathological changes caused by influenza A virus and/or LPS in endothelial cells. The results obtained in the present work may be of use when studying the mechanisms of development of the influenza A virus and secondary bacterial infection complications.