INTRODUCTION Dual antiplatelet therapy, aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor, is recommended to prevent thrombotic complications of acute coronary syndrome. Clopidogrel plus acetylsalicylic acid combination is the most commonly used dual antiplatelet therapy recommended by international guidelines and in Chinese clinical practice. Poor adherence to dual antiplatelet therapy or premature interruption of dual antiplatelet therapy is an important contributor to cardiovascular mortality and lethal cardiovascular events. Clopidogrel + acetylsalicylic acid fixed-dose combination enhances adherence to dual antiplatelet therapy. Herein, we aimed to evaluate bioequivalence of acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel in fixed-dose combination compared with simultaneous administration of their individual formulations in healthy Chinese subjects under fasting conditions. METHODS This was a randomized, single-center, open-label, three-sequence, three-period, two-treatment, crossover study with a washout period of 10 days conducted in healthy Chinese volunteers. Subjects were randomized to receive Co-Plavix® (test formulation- fixed-dose combination of 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid and 75 mg clopidogrel) once and reference formulations (coadministration of individual formulations of 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid and 75 mg clopidogrel) twice during the study period. Pharmacokinetic parameters were analyzed for acetylsalicylic acid, its metabolite salicylic acid, clopidogrel, and its metabolite SR26334. As acetylsalicylic acid shows high intrasubject variability, the reference-scaled average bioequivalence (RSABE) approach was implemented for acetylsalicylic acid analysis, while bioequivalence of clopidogrel was assessed using the average bioequivalence method. Point ratios and confidence intervals (CIs) for AUC, AUClast, and Cmax for acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel were calculated. RESULTS In total, 171 healthy subjects were enrolled in this study. Subjects were randomized and 170 subjects were treated with test or reference formulation; 164 subjects completed the study. Regarding acetylsalicylic acid exposure, as reference within-subject standard deviation (SDW) was at least 0.294 for acetylsalicylic acid Cmax, AUClast, and AUC, the RSABE analysis method was used to assess bioequivalence for all three parameters. The point estimates were within the 0.80-1.25 range (1.19, 1.09, and 1.04, respectively), and upper one-sided 95% CIs of scaled average bioequivalence metric were at most 0 (- 0.30, - 0.14, and - 0.10, respectively). Thus, bioequivalence was demonstrated with acetylsalicylic acid. Bioequivalence was also achieved with clopidogrel as the 90% CIs for geometric mean ratios of clopidogrel Cmax, AUClast, and AUC were within the bioequivalence range (0.80-1.25). CONCLUSION Application of the reference-scaled average bioequivalence approach to evaluate bioequivalence of acetylsalicylic acid in Chinese male and female healthy volunteers under fasting conditions demonstrated bioequivalence of test and reference formulations. TRIAL REGISTRATION CTR20181695.