Endophytes are the group of microorganisms that reside to internal and healthy tissues without causing negative symptoms to their host plant. Endophytes are extremely diverse and range from fungi, bacteria and actinomycetes. Development of drug resistance to pathogenic forms of bacteria, fungi and other microbes, emergence of lethal viruses, the perpetuating epidemics in developing and under developing countries, and multifold fungal infection, enhancement in human population globally, all shows our inability to overcome these biomedical problems. In addition to this, we are also unable to assure people towards enough food security in specific regions of the earth due to infestation of different plant diseases. Since the fungal endophytes are relatively less studied group of microbial flora, but are responsible for several prospects such as biodiversity, ecology, bioactive metabolites (metabolomics) and nanotechnology, may enable us to overcome the above mentioned problems. Fungal endophytes represent a dependable source of specific secondary metabolites and can be manipulated both physicochemically and genetically to increase yield of desired compounds and to produce novel analogues of active metabolites. In this chapter, we have discussed several bioactive compounds and classified them in to different classes as per their properties such as antifungal, antibacterial, antiviral, antimalarial, anticancer, antioxidants, antidiabetic and immunosuppressive agents derived from fungal endophytes with their hosts and made the chemical structures for 73 compounds using chemdraw 3D ultra version 7.0. These bioactive products are related to human health with MIC/EC/IC(50) values less that 50 μg/mL. This article also discusses nematicidal, some antimicrobial volatile compounds (VOCs) that are related to plant protection and faecal disposal. Therefore, this chapter is not very specific and covers almost prospects of fungal endophytes which could be useful in biodiversity, agrochemicals, biotechnology, biomedical and nanotechnology in ecofriendly manner.