BACKGROUND: In December 2019, coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China. The disease has rapidly spread from Wuhan to other regions. OBJECTIVES: To describe the clinical manifestations and epidemiological characteristics of patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection in Hunan Province in 2020. STUDY DESIGN: From January 19 to February 7, 2020, 33 patients with positive in nucleic acid test of pharyngeal swab were retrospectively collected and analyzed. RESULTS: There are 33 COVID-19 patients (16 male, 17 female), and the median age was 46 years. Nineteen patients (48 %) were associated with a family cluster outbreak. Seventeen patients (52 %) had traveled or lived in Hubei Province. These patients are early mild cases, most common symptoms are fever [23 (70 %)] and cough [13 (39 %)]. Most patients' white blood cell counts are normal, while they manifest as significant reduction in lymphocytes [17/28 (61 %)]. The levels of c-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate suggest a typical viral infection. Procalcitonin did not increase and D-dimer increased slightly. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels have elevated in most patients. CT images of these patients showed bilateral multiple plaques or nodular ground-glass opacities (68.4 %). Fecal nucleic acid results were positive in eight COVID-19 patients accompanied with diarrhea. Tear nucleic acid results were negative in six COVID-19 patients. And four asymptomatic patients were infected with SARS-CoV-2. CONCLUSIONS: The clinical symptoms, laboratory results and imaging reports of patients with COVID-19 in Hunan area are significantly different from those in Wuhan area. For non-Wuhan epidemic areas, more attention should be paid to nucleic acid test results of throat swabs and stools, and it is not easily to diagnose based on clinical symptoms and CT results. Reduced whole blood lymph count can be used as an adjuvant diagnosis of early SARS-CoV-2 infection. Attention should be paid to asymptomatic carriers, which is of great significance for the control of the global epidemic.