BACKGROUND Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is considered a primary bariatric surgery and is increasingly being performed worldwide; however, long-term data regarding the durability of this procedure are inadequate. Here, we report the long-term results of LSGs in comparison to those of gastric bypass surgeries. METHODS A prospectively collected bariatric database from Ming-Shen General Hospital was retrospectively studied. Five hundred nineteen morbidly obese patients (mean age 36.0 ± 9.1 years old (14-71), 74.6 % female, mean body mass index (BMI) 37.5 ± 6.1 kg/m(2)) underwent LSG as a primary bariatric procedure from 2006 to 2012 at our institute. The operative parameters, weight loss, laboratory data, and quality of life were followed. Another two matched groups of laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) and laparoscopic single anastomosis (mini-) gastric bypass (SAGB) patients who were matched in terms of age, sex, and BMI were recruited for comparisons. RESULTS The mean surgical time for LSG was 113.5 ± 31.3 min, and the mean blood loss was 49.1 + 100.9 ml. The rate of major complications was 1.6 %, and the average length of the postoperative stay was 3.0 ± 1.7 days. The operation times of the RYGB patients were longer than those of both the LSG and SAGB patients. The RYGB and SAGB patients experienced higher major complication rate than the LSG patients. The weight loss of the LSG patient at 5 years was 28.3 + 8.9 %, and the mean BMI was 27.1 + 4.3. The RYGB patients exhibited a 5-year weight loss similar to the LSG patients, and the SAGB patients exhibited greater weight loss than both of the other groups. Both the RYGB and SAGB patients exhibited significantly better glycemic control and lower blood lipids than the LSG patients, but the LSG patients exhibited a lesser micronutrient deficiency than the RYGB and SAGB groups. All three of the groups exhibited improved quality of life at 5 years after surgery, and there was no significant between-group difference in this measure. CONCLUSIONS LSG appears to be an ideal bariatric surgery, and the efficacy of this surgery is not inferior to that of gastric bypass.