BACKGROUND Although routine physical activity for individuals with COPD is recommended, there are inherent limitations of available oxygen delivery devices that may result in hypoxemia during activity. Changes in Medicare laws have resulted in an increased use of oxygen cylinders and a reduction in the use of liquid oxygen devices. The aim of this survey was to assess the impact of perceived satisfaction with various oxygen delivery devices on perceived mobility and quality of life (QOL) of oxygen-dependent subjects with COPD. METHODS A survey was developed to measure perceived satisfaction with current portable oxygen delivery devices, perceived mobility, and perceived QOL. The survey was deployed via a link posted on the COPD Foundation's COPD360SOCIAL social media site for 5 weeks, which resulted in the recruitment of 529 participants, of which 417 were included in the data analysis. RESULTS Quantile regression analysis revealed that the median perceived device satisfaction score was significantly higher in the liquid oxygen device group (P < .001) compared with the portable oxygen cylinder and portable oxygen concentrator (POC) groups. The median perceived mobility score was significantly higher in the liquid oxygen device group (P < .001) compared with the portable oxygen cylinder group, but not the POC group. The median QOL score was significantly higher in the liquid oxygen device group (P < .001) compared with the POC and portable oxygen cylinder groups. Moreover, partial least-squares structural equation modeling regression analysis showed that perceived mobility is significantly affected by perceived satisfaction with the long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) device (adjusted R2 = 0.15, P < .001), and perceived QOL is significantly affected by both perceived satisfaction with the LTOT device and perceived mobility (adjusted R2 = 0.45, P < .001). CONCLUSIONS For individuals with COPD requiring LTOT, perceived satisfaction with a portable LTOT device significantly and positively affects perceived mobility and QOL.