BACKGROUND In the literature, there have been scant studies that compare the effects of totally extraperitoneal (TEP) and Lichtenstein hernia (LH) repairs on men's sexual function and quality of life. Our aim in this study was to study the sexual function of men after TEP and LH repair according to SF 36 (Health Survey Scoring Demonstration) and IIEF (The International Index of Erectile Function). METHODS A total of 176 men with unilateral inguinal hernia were randomized into two groups. Group T (n = 88) received TEP hernia repair, and Group L (n:88) received LH repair. Patients' demographics and perioperative findings were recorded. For all patients, the preoperative as well as postoperative 7th, 30th and 90th day SF 36 and IIEF were recorded. RESULTS A total of 176 operations consisting of 88 TEP and 88 LH repairs were evaluated. There were no differences in demographics, hernia type, and complications except for body mass index (BMI). The operative time was higher in Group T (29.6 ± 5.8 vs. 43.5 ± 5.7 min; p = 0.001). The averages of the SF 36-Vitality and Social Function for Postoperative (PO) 30th day scores were higher in Group T. The averages of the SF 36-Bodily Pain, General Health, Physical Role, Emotional Role for PO 7-30th days SF36- Mental Health for PO 7th day and SF 36 Physical Function for PO 30-90th days scores were statistically higher in Group T. The averages of the IIEF- Erectile Function for PO 30th day, IIEF- Orgasmic Function, Sexual Desire, Intercourse Satisfaction, and Intercourse Satisfaction for PO 7th and 30th days scores were higher in Group T. CONCLUSIONS TEP and LH repairs have similar results for recurrence, complications, and hospital stay; otherwise, TEP repair yields better results than the LH repair in the postoperative course at the 7th and 30th day evaluation, concerning sexual function and quality of life, but this benefit is no longer apparent at the 90th day. Although the short-term differences were statistically significant, they were moderate and might have a limited impact from the clinical point of view.