Folate receptor (FR) targeting is an attractive strategy for nuclear imaging of cancer and activated macrophages through application of folic acid radioconjugates. However, significant renal accumulation of folate radioconjugates and hence exceedingly high emission of radiation from the kidneys may mask uptake of radioactivity at sites of interest such as small metastases in the abdominal region of animal models of ovarian cancer. Recently it was observed that the antifolate pemetrexed (PMX) reduces undesired renal uptake of radiofolates. A disadvantage of this strategy is the fact that pemetrexed is a chemotherapeutic agent which may have toxic side effects. The aims of this study were therefore to investigate whether the desired effect of PMX to reduce renal accumulation of folate radioconjugates would be maintained if it was applied as a cocktail together with its antidote, thymidine, and to explore whether thymidine was an effective rescue agent against PMX's related toxicity in vitro and in vivo. In vitro internalization of (67)Ga-EC0800 was investigated using FR-positive KB tumor cells and embryonic monkey MA104 kidney cells in the absence and presence of PMX alone and in combination with thymidine. Uptake of (67)Ga-EC0800 into KB cells was increased by coincubation of the cells with PMX. In contrast uptake of (67)Ga-EC0800 into MA104 cells was reduced under the same conditions. In both cell lines coincubation of thymidine did not change the results obtained with PMX. Biodistribution and SPECT/CT imaging studies of (67)Ga-EC0800 were performed with KB tumor bearing mice injected with PMX alone or with a cocktail of PMX and thymidine. The radiofolate's kidney uptake reducing effect of PMX in mice was maintained also if PMX was employed together with its antidote thymidine. The tumor uptake of (67)Ga-EC0800 remained unchanged independent of the administration of PMX or a combination of PMX and thymidine. The effect of thymidine to abrogate PMX-induced cytotoxicity was demonstrated in vitro with an MTT assay using KB and MA104 cells. Cell viability was reduced to 50% (KB cells) and 70% (MA104 cells) of untreated controls if PMX (5 μM and 15 μM, respectively) was coincubated. Addition of thymidine (10 μM or 100 μM) compensated PMX's toxic effects in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of thymidine was also investigated in non-tumor bearing mice treated with high-dosed PMX. Rescue of mice with side effects after the third and fourth cycles of PMX application (1 mg/mouse) was achieved by application of thymidine (20 mg/mouse) at five consecutive days starting the day of PMX injection. Application of PMX together with thymidine as a cocktail is effective to improve the tissue distribution of radiofolates while preventing pharmacological and potentially toxic side effects of the chemotherapeutic agent PMX. These findings open new perspectives for folate-based nuclear imaging in preclinical research potentially allowing longitudinal investigations and monitoring therapies in animal models of cancer and inflammatory diseases.