OBJECTIVE To assess the clinical safety and tolerability of the macrocyclic contrast agent gadobutrol (Gadovist/Gadavist) overall and in specific patient populations based on clinical trials and postmarketing experience. MATERIALS AND METHODS In total, 5545 patients enrolled in 34 prospective clinical studies were evaluated in an integrated analysis of safety. Of all enrolled patients, 4549 received gadobutrol at a dose of ≤ 0.09 mmol/kg body weight to a maximum of 0.51 mmol/kg body weight, with most patients (53.5%) receiving the recommended dose of >0.09 to 0.11 mmol/kg body weight. Data include comparisons with other extracellular contrast agents and subgroup analyses in pediatric patients, and patients with allergic disposition, renal impairment, hepatic impairment, or cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, worldwide postmarketing safety surveillance results, including nephrogenic systemic fibrosis reports, based on more than 5.7 million estimated applications are described. RESULTS One or more adverse events (AEs) assessed as related to the administration of gadobutrol were reported by 182 (4.0%) of the 4549 patients who participated in clinical trials. This is comparable to the incidence observed with the comparator contrast agents (74/1844 patients, 4.0%). The most common AEs, independent of drug relationship, were headache, nausea, feeling hot, and dysgeusia. The favorable safety profile of gadobutrol was also demonstrated in the following specific subpopulations in whom similar incidence rates were seen: pediatric patients aged 2 to 17 years (8/138 patients, 5.8%), patients with severe or moderate renal impairment (9/366 patients, 2.5%), patients with severe or moderate hepatic impairment (9/214 patients, 4.2%), and patients with cardiovascular disorders (42/1506 patients, 2.8%). Having been established in controlled clinical trials, this safety profile was also confirmed by postmarketing surveillance data. With more than 5.7 million estimated administrations of gadobutrol, a total of 1175 (0.02%) suspected adverse drug reactions have been reported. The most serious adverse reactions seen in postmarketing surveillance included rare reports of cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, anaphylactoid shock, and nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. Incidence and type of AEs from postmarketing surveillance were consistent with the established safety profile. CONCLUSION The comprehensive analysis of safety data obtained from 34 clinical studies demonstrates that gadobutrol has an excellent safety profile and a positive benefit risk profile when used in patients in need of contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. Gadobutrol was well tolerated by adults, by children, by patients with impaired liver or kidney function, and by patients with cardiovascular disease. The favorable safety profile is confirmed by the available postmarketing surveillance data and is compared with that of other gadolinium-based contrast agents.