Coronaviruses (CoVs) stand out for their large RNA genome and complex RNA-synthesizing machinery comprising 16 nonstructural proteins (nsps). The bifunctional nsp14 contains an N-terminal 3’-to-5’ exoribonuclease (ExoN) and a C-terminal N7-methyltransferase (N7-MTase) domain. While the latter presumably operates during viral mRNA capping, ExoN is thought to mediate proofreading during genome replication. In line with such a role, ExoN-knockout mutants of mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) were previously found to have a crippled but viable hypermutation phenotype. Remarkably, using an identical reverse genetics approach, an extensive mutagenesis study revealed the corresponding ExoN-knockout mutants of another betacoronavirus, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), to be non-viable. This is in agreement with observations previously made for alpha- and gammacoronaviruses. Only a single MERS-CoV ExoN active site mutant could be recovered, likely because the introduced D191E substitution is highly conservative in nature. For 11 other MERS-CoV ExoN active site mutants, not a trace of RNA synthesis could be detected, unless – in some cases – reversion had first occurred. Subsequently, we expressed and purified recombinant MERS-CoV nsp14 and established in vitro assays for both its ExoN and N7-MTase activities. All ExoN knockout mutations that were lethal when tested via reverse genetics were found to severely decrease ExoN activity, while not affecting N7-MTase activity. Our study thus reveals an additional function for MERS-CoV nsp14 ExoN, which apparently is critical for primary viral RNA synthesis, thus differentiating it from the proofreading activity thought to boost long-term replication fidelity in MHV and SARS-CoV. Importance The bifunctional nsp14 subunit of the coronavirus replicase contains 3’-to-5’ exoribonuclease (ExoN) and N7-methyltransferase (N7-MTase) domains. For the betacoronaviruses MHV and SARS-CoV, the ExoN domain was reported to promote the fidelity of genome replication, presumably by mediating some form of proofreading. For these viruses, ExoN knockout mutants are alive while displaying an increased mutation frequency. Strikingly, we now established that the equivalent knockout mutants of MERS-CoV ExoN are non-viable and completely deficient in RNA synthesis, thus revealing an additional and more critical function of ExoN in coronavirus replication. Both enzymatic activities of (recombinant) MERS-CoV nsp14 were evaluated using newly developed in vitro assays that can be used to characterize these key replicative enzymes in more detail and explore their potential as target for antiviral drug development.