Water is an essential component of food structures and biological materials. The importance of water as a parameter affecting virion stability and inactivation has been recognized across disciplinary areas. The large number of virus species, differences in spreading, likelihood of foodborne infections, unknown infective doses, and difficulties of infective virus quantification are often limiting experimental approaches to establish accurate data required for detailed understanding of virions’ stability and inactivation kinetics in various foods. Furthermore, non-foodborne viruses, as shown by the SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) pandemic, may spread within the food chain. Traditional food engineering benefits from kinetic data on effects of relative humidity (RH) and temperature on virion inactivation. The stability of enteric viruses, human norovirus (HuNoV), and hepatitis A (HAV) virions in food materials and their resistance against inactivation in traditional food processing and preservation is well recognized. It appears that temperature-dependence of virus inactivation is less affected by virus strains than differences in temperature and RH sensitivity of individual virus species. Pathogenic viruses are stable at low temperatures typical of food storage conditions. A significant change in activation energy above typical protein denaturation temperatures suggests a rapid inactivation of virions. Furthermore, virus inactivation mechanisms seem to vary according to temperature. Although little is known on the effects of water on virions’ resistance during food processing and storage, dehydration, low RH conditions, and freezing stabilize virions. Enveloped virions tend to have a high stability at low RH, but low temperature and high RH may also stabilize such virions on metal and other surfaces for several days. Food engineering has contributed to significant developments in stabilization of nutrients, flavors, and sensitive components in food materials which provides a knowledge base for development of technologies to inactivate virions in foods and environment. Novel food processing, particularly high pressure processing (HPP) and cold plasma technologies, seem to provide efficient means for virion inactivation and food quality retention prior to packaging or food preservation by traditional technologies.