BACKGROUND Infection is a major concern with medical implants. Surgical meshes used for the repair of abdominal wall hernias are associated with wound infection rates ranging from 7 to 18 %. Although mesh infection is relatively rare, once a patient shows clinical signs of mesh infection, the surgeon may be required to remove the mesh, resulting in additional surgery, morbidity, and cost. The usual causative organisms associated with cases of mesh infection are Staphylococcus species. The first stage of implant infection is bacterial adherence to the biomaterial. An accurate assessment of adherent bacteria to medical prosthetics is therefore important in order to determine the infection risk associated with surgical implants. METHODS This experimental study evaluated the relationship between the size of the bacterial inoculum and bacterial adherence to three commonly used hernia prosthetics (polypropylene, polyester, and ePTFE). Tenfold dilutions of S. epidermidis (Evans-ATCC 12228) and S. aureus (Rosenbach-ATCC 25923), created with phosphate-buffered saline, were used to inoculate each of the meshes in 3 ml of tryptone soya broth for 18 h at 37 °C, 95 % air/5 % CO(2). The number of viable bacteria in each dilution was calculated using a spot plate technique. The number of adherent bacteria to the meshes was counted using direct imaging analysis with scanning electron microscopy and expressed as a mean. RESULTS One hundred eight mesh samples were analysed. The size of the bacterial inoculum of S. epidermidis significantly influenced the number of adherent bacteria to the mesh, and lower rates of adhesion were observed with smaller inoculums for all three meshes (polypropylene, p = 0.02; ePTFE p = 0.03; polyester p = 0.02). A similar, albeit less profound, pattern of results was observed with S. aureus. Bacterial adherence was observed with inoculum sizes as small as <10 bacteria. CONCLUSIONS The results demonstrate that even a very low number of bacterial inoculums can result in adherence to hernia biomaterials and that the level of adherence is directly related to the size of the inoculum. These in vitro results provide evidence that the size of the inoculum is important in the colonization of hernia biomaterials and demonstrate the importance of minimising the bacterial inoculum in the clinical setting.