Importance: Anecdotal evidence such as increased calls to domestic violence (DV) hotlines across the globe suggest that there may be an increase of IPV prevalence in association with the COVID-19 outbreak; however, no study has investigated this phenomenon empirically. Objective: To evaluate the association between COVID-19 related conditions and recent use or experience of IPV (since the pandemic outbreak in the U.S). Design, Setting, and Participants: This cross-sectional study analyzed data collected online from a sample of noninstitutionalized adults (age 18+) in the U.S. (N=2,045). More than half of the sample self-identified as being in an intimate relationship at the time of the study. Main Outcomes and Measures: A four-item tool was used to assess IPV perpetration and victimization since the outbreak of COVID-19. The rapid tool inquired about two forms of IPV, psychological and physical. Participants self-reported demographic data and recent health histories, including COVID-19 tests results, related symptoms and degree of personal social distancing. We hypothesized that COVID-19 related factors would increase risks of IPV. Results: In this study, self-reported COVID-19 impacted respondents had an increased risk of IPV victimization and perpetration. Among those who reported having symptoms consistent with coronavirus, but were denied access to testing, psychological IPV victimization was 3 times greater than those who did not (Exp[B] =3.15, [1.19, 2.29] p <.05). For participants who reported testing positive to COVID-19, the odds of using psychological IPV (Exp[B] =3.24, [1.18, 8.89] p <.05) and physical IPV (Exp[B]=3.02, [1.12, 8.17] p <.05) against an intimate partner increased by more than 3 times. Conclusions and Relevance: Patient education and community outreach/health care system initiatives focused on IPV risk behaviors may help reduce the potential development of IPV. Continued surveillance is imperative to improve health and well-being along with effective intervention development and implementation.