BACKGROUND Transoral videolaryngoscopic surgery (TOVS) was developed as a new distinct surgical procedure for hypopharyngeal cancer (HPC) and supraglottic cancer (SGC) staged at up to T3. However, long-term treatment outcomes of TOVS remain to be validated. METHODS Under a straight broad intraluminal view provided by combined use of a distending laryngoscope and a videolaryngoscope, we performed en bloc tumor resection via direct bimanual handling of the ready-made straight-form surgical instruments and devices. We retrospectively analyzed functional and oncologic outcomes of 72 patients with HPC (n = 58) or SGC (n = 14) whose minimum follow-up was 24 months or until death. RESULTS The cohort comprised nine patients of Tis, 23 of T1, 33 of T2, and 7 of T3. Among 36 patients (50%) who underwent neck dissection simultaneously, all but one were pathologically node-positive. Twelve patients underwent postoperative concurrent chemoradiation (CCRT) as adjuvant treatment, and another four patients underwent radiation or CCRT for second or later primary cancer. The endotracheal tube was removed in an operation room in all but two patients who underwent temporary tracheostomy. Pharyngeal fistula was formed transiently in two patients. The median time until patients resumed oral intake and could take a soft meal was 2 and 5 days, respectively. Eventually, 69 patients (96%) took normal meals. The 5-year cause-specific survival (CSS), overall survival (OS), larynx-preserved CSS, and loco-regional controlled CSS were 87.3%, 77.9%, 86.0%, and 88.0%, respectively. Multivariate analysis revealed N2-3 as an independent prognostic factor in both CSS (hazard ratio [HR] = 25.51, P = 0.008) and OS (HR = 4.90, P = 0.022), which indirectly reflected higher risk of delayed distant metastasis. CONCLUSIONS Considering its sound functional and oncological outcomes with various practical advantages, TOVS can be a dependable, less invasive, and cost-effective surgical option of an organ-function preservation strategy for HPC and SGC.