INTRODUCTION Laparoscopic pyeloplasty for ureteropelvic junction obstruction in children has gained increasing importance over the last decade. Intracorporeal knot tying still remains a technical challenge for the surgeon. Self-anchoring suture incorporates a new concept for tissue approximation and reduces intracorporeal knot tying problems. There are very few reports on self-anchoring knotless suture and its application for laparoscopic pyeloplasty in children. We present our results of a series of consecutive children undergoing laparoscopic pyeloplasty with knotless barbed sutures. MATERIAL AND METHOD We prospectively evaluate 15 consecutive patients who underwent laparoscopic pyeloplasty with knotless barbed sutures (V-LocTM, Covidien) for ureteropelvic anastomosis. The decision of the operation was given by pediatric nephrology-urology-radiologic imaging diagnostic team, and all patients were operated by a single surgeon. Pyeloplasty was performed without pelvic reduction, and the anastomosis was made by barbed sutures using running fashion. RESULTS The mean age of the patients were 5.39 (3 months-17 years). Two cases had undergone a right-sided pyeloplasty, and thirteen had undergone a left-sided pyeloplasty. The duration of the operative procedure was 60-110 min. Neither intraoperative nor postoperative complication was encountered in any of the cases. Patients were followed by ultrasonographic evaluation. The anteroposterior diameter (AP) diameter of renal pelvis and hydronephrosis grade Society for Fetal Urology (SFU) are significantly different when compared with pre-operative and postoperative period (p = 0.001 and p = 0.001, respectively). Owing to the renal parenchymal thickness change by age pre-operative and postoperative thickness comparison is adjusted by age, because age is considered as a covariate (confounder variable). We observed statistically significant (p = 0.003) difference in parenchymal thickness in all cases. Follow-up periods of the 15 consecutive pediatric pyeloplasty cases were 6-54 months. CONCLUSION In the present study, successful outcome of the laparoscopic pyeloplasty using barbed suture was shown for the first time in children in literature. We believe that successful outcome of laparoscopic pyeloplasty could be achieved by eliminating knots and less manipulation on the wound edge also minimizes tissue injury during the procedure.