UNLABELLED The author draws attention to the up-to-datedness of the selected topic and its personal and institutional effects. Stress in work (workplace stress) has a significant role in the pathomechanism of burnout. Nurses are exposed to excessive stress burden in work so expected incidence of burnout is relatively high among them. Goal of this study is to draw a picture about the situation, condition of mental health, degree and rate of burnout in nurses in given health care situations. METHODS Self-completed, anonymous questionnaire questioning the surveyed socio-demographic data while using three standardized questionnaires with the measurement of the degree of burnout, physical and mental exhaustion and fatigue as well as dysfunctional attitudes. RESULTS The study surveyed 805 individuals analyzing the specific characteristics of supporting relationship and joining points between degree of burnout and (hospital) department care form. Among 374 nurses working in the intensive care unit 9.4% suffer from burnout, while among 155 nurses working in active care unit this rate is 0.6%. According to the findings of the study there are also other influential elements, namely the facts that nurses have part-time jobs (second jobs) besides their full-time jobs and the lack of moral and financial respect or recognition. Among the surveyed population 273 individuals--33.9%--are at risk regarding burnout, 44 individuals--5.5%--show signs of burnout and 7 individuals--0.9%--are in a condition where treatment is needed. The study supposed the influential role of certain personality factors (dysfunctional attitudes) in the development of burnout. Comparison showed that burnout phenomenon and dysfunctional attitudes are correlated. CONCLUSION The survey results confirmed that socio-demographic factors had no effect on burnout development. The severity of patients' condition and the degree of permanent stressful situation in intensive care units are among determinant workplace factors.