Background: Despite significant advances in the materials and methods development used in surgical repair and postoperative rehabilitation, the adhesion formation remains the most common clinical problem in tendon injuries. Therefore, the development of novel therapies is necessary for targeting at preventing tendon adhesion formation and improving tendon strength. Methods: We used rat fibroblasts for in vitro experiments to determine the optimal concentration of TSA in rats, and then set up negative control group, TSA intervention group, mir-29b interference adenovirus intervention group and TSA and mir-29b interference adenovirus co-intervention group. By comparing cell proliferation and protein expression in different group, we verified the effect and mechanism of drugs on fibroblast function. At the same time, the Sprague-Dawley rat Achilles tendon model in vivo was established in this study, which was divided into sham operation group and operation group. Afterwards in the operation group, mir-29b inhibitor and placebo were injected every 3 days respectively. Then the injection inhibitor group was divided into 5 groups which mean TSA was injected into the marked area at 0, 6, 24 and 72 hours after operation for 1 week, finally all of the rats were died at 3 weeks after operation. Through the observation of general properties, histological observation of Achilles tendon injury, biomechanical test and cell and protein expression in rats' tendon cell, the effect of drugs on tendon adhesion formation was analyzed. Results: We demonstrated that the combination of miR-29b inhibitor and tanshinone IIA(TSA) could prevent tendon adhesion and also enhance tendon strength. Mechanically, the miR-29b inhibitor could activate the TGF-β/Smad3 pathway to trigger endogenous pathways and induce a high proliferation of fibroblast. Subsequently, we also found adding TSA after 6 hours of miR-29b treatment gave less cell cytotoxicity in our rat model with better outcome of less tendon adhesion and enhanced strength. Conclusion: We conclude that the use of miR-29b inhibitor at the end of the tendon break could initiate endogenous repair mechanism and subsequently use of TSA should be able to inhibit the exogenous repair mechanism. Therefore, the combination of both treatments could prevent tendon adhesion and ensure tendon strength. Our findings suggested that this approach would be a feasible approach for tendon repair.