PURPOSE V-Loc™180 (Covidien Healthcare, Mansfield, MA) is a new unidirectional barbed suture that may reduce loss of tension during a running closure. We evaluated the use of the barbed suture for urethrovesical anastomosis (UVA) during robotic assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP). Time to completion of UVA, post-operative anastomotic leak rate, and urinary incontinence were compared in patients undergoing UVA with 3-0 unidirectional-barbed suture vs. 3-0 Monocryl™ (Ethicon, Somerville, NJ). MATERIALS AND METHODS Data were prospectively collected for 70 consecutive patients undergoing RALP for prostate cancer between November 2009 and October 2010. In the first 35 patients, the UVA was performed using a modified running van Velthoven anastomosis technique using two separate 3-0 monofilament sutures. In the subsequent 35 patients, the UVA was performed using two running novel unidirectional barbed sutures. At 7-12 days postoperatively, all patients were evaluated with a cystogram to determine anastomotic integrity. Urinary incontinence was assessed at two months and five months by total daily pad usage. Clinical symptoms suggestive of bladder neck contracture were elicited. RESULTS Age, PSA, Gleason score, prostate size, estimated blood loss, body mass index, and clinical and pathologic stage between the 2 groups were similar. Comparing the monofilament group and V-Loc™180 cohorts, average time to complete the anastomosis was similar (27.4 vs. 26.4 minutes, p = 0.73) as was the rate of urinary extravasation on cystogram (5.7 % vs. 8.6%, p = 0.65). There were no symptomatic bladder neck contractures noted at 5 months of follow-up. At 2 months, the percentage of patients using 2 or more pads per day was lower in the V-Loc™180 cohort (24% vs. 44%, p < 0.02). At 5 months, this difference was no longer evident. CONCLUSIONS Time to complete the UVA was similar in the intervention and control groups. Rates of urine leak were also comparable. While the V-Loc™180 was associated with improved early continence, this difference was transient.