BACKGROUND Frail older adults are commonly prescribed antidepressants. Yet, there is little evidence to determine the efficacy and safety of antidepressants to treat depression with concomitant frailty. To better understand this issue, we examined the efficacy and safety of second-generation antidepressants for the treatment of older adults with depression and then considered implications for frailty. METHODS Due to the absence of therapeutic studies of frail older adults with depression, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of double-blind, randomized controlled trials that compared antidepressants versus placebo for adults with depression, age 65 years or older. We searched PubMed/MEDLINE, Cochrane Library, reference lists from meta-analyses/studies, hand searches of publication lists, and related articles on PubMed. Outcomes included rates of response, remission, and adverse events. After evaluating the data, we applied a frailty-informed framework to consider how the evidence could be applied to frailty. RESULTS Nine trials were included in the meta-analysis (n = 2704). Subjects had moderate to severe depression. For older adults with depression, there was no statistically significant difference in response or remission to second-generation antidepressants compared to placebo. Response occurred in 45.3% of subjects receiving an antidepressant compared to 40.5% receiving placebo (RR 1.15, 95% CI: 0.96 - 1.37, p = 0.12, I2 = 71%). Remission occurred in 33.1% with antidepressant versus 31.3% with placebo (RR 1.10, 95% CI: 0.92 - 1.31, p = 0.30, I2 = 56%) (Figure 2 and 3). There were more withdrawals due to adverse events with antidepressants, 13% versus 5.8% (RR 2.30, 95% CI: 1.45-3.63; p < 0.001; I2 = 61%; NNH 14, 95% CI:10-28). IMPLICATIONS FOR FRAILTY Subjects in the meta-analysis did not have obvious characteristics of frailty. Using framework questions to consider the implications of frailty, we hypothesize that, like older adults, frail individuals with depression may not respond to antidepressants. Further, observational studies suggest that those who are frail may be less responsive to antidepressants compared to the non-frail. Given the vulnerability of frailty, adverse events may be more burdensome. CONCLUSIONS Second-generation antidepressants have uncertain benefit for older adults with depression and cause more adverse events compared to placebo. Until further research clarifies benefit, careful consideration of antidepressant prescribing with frailty is warranted.