BACKGROUND: The Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETP) is a 2-year training program in applied epidemiology. FETP graduates have contributed significantly to improvements in surveillance systems, control of infectious diseases, and outbreak investigations in the Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR). OBJECTIVE: Knowing their instrumental roles during the COVID-19 crisis, this study aimed to assess the awareness and preparedness of FETP graduates in three EMR countries to respond to COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: An online survey was sent to FETP graduates in 3 countries in the EMR in March 2020. The FETP graduates were contacted by email and requested to fill an online survey. Sufficient number of responses were received from three countries only including Jordan, Sudan, and Yemen. Few responses were received from other countries and therefore they were excluded from the analysis. The questionnaire comprised a series of questions pertaining to socio-demographic characteristics, knowledge of the epidemiology of COVID-19, and preparedness to respond to COVID-19. RESULTS: This study included a total of 57 FETP graduates (20 from Jordan, 13 from Sudan, and 24 from Yemen). A total of 31 (54%) graduates had attended training on COVID-19, 29 (51%) are member of a rapid response team against COVID-19 and 54 (95%) had previous experience in response to disease outbreaks or health emergencies. The vast majority were aware of the main symptoms, mode of transmission, high risk groups, and aware of how to use personal protective equipment. A total of 46 (81%) respondents considered themselves well prepared for the COVID-19 outbreak and 40 (70%) reported that they currently have a role in supporting the country efforts in the management of COVID-19 outbreak. CONCLUSIONS: The FETP graduates in Jordan, Sudan, and Yemen were fully aware of the epidemiology COVID-19 and the safety measures and they are well positioned to investigate and respond to COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, they should be properly and efficiently utilized by the ministries of health to investigate and respond to the current COVID-19 crisis where the needs are vastly growing and access to outside experts becomes limited.