Importance: Racial disparities in COVID-19 outcomes have been amplified during this pandemic and reports on outcomes in African-American (AA) populations, known to have higher rates of cardiovascular (CV) comorbidities, remain limited. Objective: To examine prevalence of comorbidities, rates of hospitalization and survival, and incidence of CV manifestations of COVID-19 in a predominantly AA population in south metropolitan Chicago. Design, Setting, Participants: This was an observational cohort study of COVID-19 patients encountered from March 16 to April 16, 2020 at the University of Chicago. Deidentified data were obtained from an institutional data warehouse. Group comparisons and logistic regression modeling based on baseline demographics, clinical characteristics, laboratory and diagnostic testing was performed. Exposures: COVID-19 was diagnosed by nasopharyngeal swab testing and clinical management was at the discretion of treating physicians. Main Outcomes and Measures: Primary outcomes were hospitalization and in-hospital mortality, and secondary outcomes included incident CV manifestations of COVID-19 in the context of overall cardiology service utilization. Results: During the 30 day study period, 1008 patients tested positive for COVID-19 and 689 had available encounter data. Of these, 596 (87%) were AA and 356 (52%) were hospitalized, of which 319 (90%) were AA. Age > 60 years, tobacco use, BMI >40 kg/m2, diabetes mellitus (DM), insulin use, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, coronary artery disease (CAD), and atrial fibrillation (AF) were more common in hospitalized patients. Age > 60 years, tobacco use, CAD, and AF were associated with greater risk of in-hospital mortality along with several elevated initial laboratory markers including troponin, NT-proBNP, blood urea nitrogen, and ferritin. Despite this, cardiac manifestations of COVID-19 were uncommon, coincident with a 69% decrease in cardiology service utilization. For hospitalized patients, median length of stay was 6.2 days (3.4-11.9 days) and mortality was 13%. AA patients were more commonly hospitalized, but without increased mortality. Conclusions and Relevance: In this AA-predominant experience from south metropolitan Chicago, CV comorbidities and chronic diseases were highly prevalent and associated with increased hospitalization and mortality. Insulin-requiring DM and CKD emerged as novel predictors for hospitalization. Despite the highest rate of comorbidities reported to date, CV manifestations of COVID-19 and mortality were relatively low. The unexpectedly low rate of mortality merits further study.