The Spike is a hallmark coronavirus protein that determines virus fusion, entry and spread in the host, and thus holds clues for the rapid spread of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. We have investigated the Spike from six β-coronaviruses, including the SARS-CoV-2, and find that their surface-exposed fusion peptides constituting the fusion loop are spatially organized contiguous to each other to work synergistically for triggering the virus-host membrane fusion process. The SARS-CoV-2 fusion peptides have unique physicochemical properties, accrued in part from the presence of consecutive prolines that impart backbone rigidity which aids the virus fusogenicity. The specific contribution of these prolines has been inferred from comparative studies of their deletion mutant in a fellow murine β-coronavirus MHV-A59 that show significantly diminished fusogenicity in vitro and associated pathogenesis in vivo. The Spike cleavage-linked priming and fusogenic conformational transition steered by the fusion loop may be critical for the SARS-CoV-2 spread. Summary The Spike protein on the SARS-CoV-2 surface is the prime mediator of COVID-191 because of its central role in virus-host attachment, virus-entry, and virus-spread2. The contagious nature of SARS-CoV-2 infection has been attributed to dense glycosylation of the Spike glycoprotein3, its high affinity of binding to human ACE2 receptor4, and cleavage5. While these may be imperative, it does not explain the uncontrolled infectivity. Here we show that properties of the fusion peptides constituting the fusion loop of SARS-CoV-2 Spike that triggers the virus fusion, distinguishes it from the other five β-coronaviruses. The SARS-CoV-2 Spike trimer surface is relatively more hydrophobic, including the surface contributed by the fusion peptides. The fusion peptides are structurally rigid owing to its consecutive prolines, aromatic/hydrophobic clusters, a stretch of consecutive β-branched amino acids, and the hydrogen bonds. The role of rigidity accrued from the presence of consecutive prolines contributing to virus fusogenicity can be deciphered from our previous murine β-coronavirus, MHV-A59 studies6. The synergy brought about by the global location of the surface exposed fusion peptides, their physicochemical features, and the fusogenic conformational transition appears to drive the fusion process, which may explain the severity of the infection and widespread nature of the COVID-19 pandemic.