BACKGROUND Increased defecation frequency and soiling are common complications of surgery for right-sided Hirschsprung's disease (HD). Though the laparoscopic Duhamel procedure is a favorable option in right-sided HD, the conventional laparoscopic technique is time consuming and has complications that are associated with the reservoir. In this study, we described a modified laparoscopic Duhamel technique with ex-anal rectal transection combined with the Deloyer's procedure for right-sided HD. MATERIALS AND METHODS Between March 2010 and January 2015, 18 right-sided HD underwent this modified laparoscopic Duhamel procedure (MLDP). The main modifications were to mobilize the colon and to dissect the retrorectal space under laparoscopy, pull out, and transect ex-anally by using a linear stapling device through a transverse incision on posterior wall of the rectum. Seven age-matched patients who underwent a conventional laparoscopic Duhamel procedure (CLDP) between March 2008 and December 2010 were included as the control group. Demographics, surgical procedures, operative data, postoperative complications, and clinical outcomes were compared between these two groups. RESULTS Operative time was significantly shorter in the MLDP group (150 minutes versus 195 minutes; P = .03). There was no significant difference in mean timespan to obtain a normal defecation frequency (3.8 months versus 3.6 months), incidence of soiling (11.1% versus 14.3%; P = .34), and constipation (5.6% versus 14.3%; P = .69). Pouchitis were not found in the MLDP group, whereas 2 patients in the CLDP group (28.6%) presented with pouchitis and intractable diarrhea, requiring spur division. The incidence of postoperative enterocolitis was not significantly different in the two groups (11.1% in MLDP versus 14.3% in CLDP; P = .68). All 22 patients had a normal defecation over 4 years of age. CONCLUSIONS Laparoscopic Duhamel with ex-anal rectal transection is a simple, easy-to-learn, and effective procedure for right-sided HD. It has low postoperative pouchitis because of a short pouch.