PURPOSE To demonstrate that radiofrequency (RF) ablation can be used safely and effectively to treat selected cases of chondroblastoma. MATERIALS AND METHODS Approval was obtained from institutional review boards, research was in compliance with HIPAA protocol. The need to obtain informed consent was waived for retrospective review of patient records. The records of patients with biopsy-proved chondroblastoma who were treated with RF ablation at two academic centers from July 1995 to July 2007 were reviewed. RF ablation was performed with a single-tip electrode by using computed tomography for guidance. Lesion characteristics were determined from imaging studies obtained at the time of the procedure. Symptoms were assessed before and 1 day after the procedure. Longer-term follow-up was obtained from medical records. RESULTS Thirteen male and four female patients were treated (mean age, 17.3 years). The lesions were located in the proximal humerus (n = 7), proximal tibia (n = 4), proximal femur (n = 3), and distal femur (n = 3). The mean volume of the lesions was 2.46 mL. All patients reported relief of symptoms on postprocedure day 1. Three patients were lost to follow-up. Of the 14 patients for whom longer-term (mean, 41.3 months; range, 4-134 months) follow-up was available, 12 had complete relief of symptoms with no need for medications and full return to all activities. The patient who had the largest lesion of the study required surgical intervention because of collapse of the articular surface in the treatment area. Residual viable tumor was found at surgery. Another patient experienced mechanical problems that were thought to be unrelated to the RF ablation and was rendered pain-free after subsequent surgical treatment. CONCLUSION Percutaneous RF ablation is an alternative to surgery for treatment of selected chondroblastomas. Larger lesions beneath weight-bearing surfaces should be approached with caution due to an increased risk of articular collapse and recurrence.