BACKGROUND Our group has reported a high incidence of reactive hypoglycemia following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) with specific interest in postprandial insulin and the ratio of 1- to 2-h serum glucose levels. The purpose of this study is to compare the 6-month response to oral glucose challenge in patients undergoing RYGB, duodenal switch (DS), and vertical sleeve gastrectomy (VSG). METHODS Thirty-eight patients meeting the NIH criteria for bariatric surgery who have reached the 6-month postoperative mark are the basis of this report. Preoperatively and at 6 months follow-up, patients underwent blood draw to determine levels of fasting glucose, fasting insulin, HbA1c, C peptide, and 2 h oral liquid glucose challenge test (OGTT). HOMA-IR and 1 to 2 h ratios of glucose and fasting to 1 h ratio of insulin were calculated. RESULTS All patients underwent a successful laparoscopic bariatric procedure (VSG =13, DS =13, and RYGB = 12). All operations reduced BMI, HgbA1c, fasting glucose, and fasting insulin. HOMA IR and glucose tolerance improved with all procedures. In response to OGTT at 6 months, there was a 20-fold increase in insulin at 1 h in RYGB, which was not seen in DS. At 6 months, 1-h insulin was markedly lower in DS (p < .05), yet HbA1C was also lower in DS (p < .05). This resulted in 1- to 2-h glucose ratio of 1.9 for RYGB, 1.8 for VSG, and 1.3 for DS (p < .05). CONCLUSIONS All operations improve insulin sensitivity and decrease HgbA1c. Six-month weight loss was substantial in all groups between 22-29% excess body weight. RYGB results in marked rise in glucose following challenge with corresponding rise in 1-h insulin. VSG has a similar response to RYGB. In comparison, at 6 months following surgery, DS causes a much lower rise in 1-h insulin, with this difference being statistically significant at p < .05. As a result, DS results in a less abrupt reduction in blood glucose. Although 1-h insulin is lower, DS patients had the lowest HbA1C at 6 months (p < .05). We believe that these findings have important implications for the choice of bariatric procedure for both diabetic and non-diabetic patients.