BACKGROUND Standing laparoscopic castration without orchidectomy has been shown to be a reliable method of castration in animals with abdominal cryptorchidism, but it cannot be recommended as a method of castration in those with inguinal cryptorchidism or normal males. An alternative laparoscopic method for the castration of horses with descended testes was developed. OBJECTIVES To report the results of laparoscopy-assisted abdominal transection of the spermatic cord and a modified open method in the standing horse for castration of descended testes in unilateral abdominal cryptorchids. STUDY DESIGN Descriptive case series. METHODS Fifteen unilateral abdominal cryptorchids were castrated laparoscopically by performing intra-abdominal ligation of both spermatic cords. The spermatic cord of the cryptorchid testis was not transected. After intra-abdominal transection of the spermatic cord of the descended testis, the testis was removed by an open castration technique in the standing horse. Data collected included time taken to perform the surgical procedure, surgical complications and post-operative recovery. RESULTS Abdominal testes were located on the right side in eight horses and on the left in seven. The surgical procedure was easy to perform and few intra- or post-operative complications were seen. Pulse and respiration rates and rectal temperatures remained within normal limits during the evaluation period in all but one animal, which displayed transient pyrexia. The scrotal and laparoscopic incisional wounds healed well without any signs of swelling or exudate. In one Warmblood, there was prolapse of subcutaneous tissue the day after surgery, which retracted in 3 days. The owners were contacted by telephone at 2-3 months after discharge. Post-operative recovery had been uneventful in all horses. MAIN LIMITATIONS This study included a small number of cases in which all surgeries were performed by or under the supervision of the same surgeon. Follow-up was limited to telephone reports from owners. CONCLUSIONS A laparoscopic technique that is combined with an open scrotal incision to remove the descended testis in the standing horse was developed and shown to be a safe and reliable option for the castration of unilateral abdominal cryptorchids.