PURPOSE To retrospectively determine the incidence of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) in a large academic medical center after the adoption of restrictive gadolinium-based contrast agent (GBCA) administration guidelines. MATERIALS AND METHODS For this retrospective HIPAA-compliant study, institutional review board approval was obtained and the requirement for informed consent was waived. Restrictive GBCA guidelines were adopted in May 2007. The guidelines (a) require a recent serum creatinine level measurement in any patient who is aged 60 years or older and/or at risk for renal disease, (b) limit the maximal weight-based GBCA dose administered to any patient with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) lower than 60 mL/min/m(2) to 20 mL, and (c) prohibit the administration of any GBCA in patients who have an eGFR lower than 30 mL/min/m(2) and/or are undergoing chronic dialysis treatment (except in emergency situations). The electronic medical records were searched for all contrast material-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging examinations performed during the post-guidelines adoption period between January 2008 and March 2010 and the pre-guidelines adoption and transitional period between January 2002 and December 2007. Separate pathology records were searched for biopsy-confirmed cases of NSF during the same study periods. The incidences of NSF during the pre-guidelines adoption and transitional period and post-guidelines adoption period were compared by using the paired Z test. RESULTS A total of 52,954 contrast-enhanced MR examinations were performed during the post-guidelines adoption period. Of these 52,954 examinations, 46,464 (88%) were performed in adult patients with an eGFR of 60 mL/min/m(2) or higher or presumed normal renal function and 6454 (12%) were performed in patients with an eGFR of 30-59 mL/min/m(2). Thirty-six patients with an eGFR lower than 30 mL/min/m(2) underwent contrast-enhanced MR imaging for emergent indications. Review of the pathology records for January 2008 to September 2010 revealed no new cases of NSF resulting from GBCA exposure. CONCLUSION After restrictive guidelines regarding GBCA administration were instituted, no new cases of NSF were identified among 52,954 contrast-enhanced MR examinations, including those performed in patients with an eGFR lower than 60 mL/min/m(2).