Covid-19 is a non-orthopaedic disease but is affecting the community of Orthopaedics as much as every part of our daily living. In this Editorial the different aspects of changes in our routine are described, based on the experience of this Editor in Germany. I will try to give you a bit of background information first, as the situation is very much dependent on the specific phase of the pandemic and your place of work. The experience for an Orthopaedic Surgeon in New York or Madrid may differ from that of an Orthopaedic Surgeon in Singapore, or South Korea. As Europe is, at least at the moment, the most affected continent, it hopefully is an interesting topic for all of you. The Covid-19 pandemic is affecting all aspects of our lives, therefore this editorial is divided into 4 sessions: Role as surgeon, as doctor, as teacher, and as family member. Most countries have stopped elective surgeries and by that relegated Orthopaedic surgeons to a minimum of work. Keeping contact to patients with digital tools might be an option to achieve an organised restart after the end of the lock down period and to keep treating patients through that phase. For many Orthopaedic surgeons, the principal task now is being part of an interdisciplinary team that is headed by colleagues from Internal Medicine or Anaesthesiology. Wards from the Orthopaedic department are reorganised as quarantine wards for Covid-19 patients. Worldwide all conferences have been cancelled and nobody knows for how long this will continue. Education now has become fully digital, allowing to present and communicate without real limitations compared to conventional conferences. Some teaching options, such as hands-on workshops, fellowships, etc. are ceased and cannot be replaced by digital options. Due to social distancing families are spending much more time together than before, while some family members, especially the people at risk (elders, ones with a fragile health) cannot be visited for a long time. Get togethers with friends as well as community meetings are completely suspended. For some of them, digital technology is the only option to minimize the problem of social distancing. Overall, it has to be stated, that all parts of our lives as an Orthopaedic Surgeon are affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. As nobody knows how long these restrictions need to remain in place we have to accept them and work on improving this specific situation by following the rules. Hopefully, a vaccine will be developed in the near future, allowing us to return to a “normal” life. Nevertheless, it will never be like it was before.