SIMPLE SUMMARY: The present study focuses on the metabolic changes in the diarrhea of calves, which are manifested with the following symptoms: a thin water-like stool, cold ears and nose, throbbing bowels, oliguria, a pale or yellowish complexion, a smooth mouth, and a slow pulse. The differential metabolic pathways in calves with diarrhea were screened by metabolomics. There were nine biomarkers in the serum of healthy calves and calves with diarrhea. On the basis of these biomarkers, their associated mineral absorption, protein digestion and absorption, and other metabolic pathways, the targeted regulation of the metabolic differences of calves with diarrhea may contribute to the diagnosis, treatment, and discussion of the mechanism of calf diarrhea. ABSTRACT: The complex etiology, higher morbidity and mortality, poor prognosis, and expensive cost of calf diarrhea have made it a catastrophic disease in the dairy industry. This study aims to assess the biomarkers in calves with diarrhea and to predict the biomarkers related to the pathway. As subjects, nine calves with diarrhea and nine healthy calves were enrolled, according to strict enrollment criteria. The serum metabolites were detected by a liquid chromatographic tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), and then analyzed by online multivariate statistical analysis software to further screen the biomarkers. In addition, the biomarkers involved in the metabolic pathways of calves with diarrhea and healthy calves were analyzed. In the serum of calves with diarrhea, nine biomarkers were found to which several biomarkers exhibited a certain relation. Moreover, these biomarkers were involved in important metabolic pathways, including protein digestion and absorption, ABC transporters, aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, mineral absorption, and fatty acid biosynthesis. All these findings suggested that the imbalance of these markers was closely related to the occurrence and development of calf diarrhea. The targeted regulation of metabolic pathways involved in these biomarkers may facilitate the diagnosis, treatment, and discussion of the mechanism of calf diarrhea.