OBJECTIVES: With over 2 million cases of acute respiratory failure in the United States per year, noninvasive ventilation has become a leading treatment modality, often supplanting invasive mechanical ventilation as the initial treatment of choice. Most acute respiratory failure patients use a full face (oronasal) mask with noninvasive ventilation, which is known to impair communication, but its popularity and benefit has led many providers to accept the communication impairment. Medical staff periodically remove masks to communicate with patients, but patients are often limited to short utterances and risk lung derecruitment upon removal of positive pressure. These problems can lead to noninvasive ventilation failure, which is often linked to worse outcomes than first initiating invasive mechanical ventilation and can lead to increased hospitalization costs. DATA SOURCES: We searched MEDLINE and Google Scholar for “speech,” “communication,” “impairment,” “failure,” “complications,” “NIPPV,” “NIV,” and “noninvasive ventilation.” STUDY SELECTION: We included articles with patients in acute respiratory failure. We excluded articles for patients using noninvasive ventilation therapy for obstructive sleep apnea. DATA SYNTHESIS: Communication impairment has been associated with increasing noninvasive ventilation anxiety (odds ratio, 1.25). Of patients using noninvasive ventilation, 48% require early discontinuation, 22% refuse noninvasive ventilation, and 9% are ultimately intubated. Improvements to communication have been shown to reduce fear and anxiety in invasive mechanical ventilation patients. Analogous communication problems exist with effective solutions in other fields, such as fighter pilot masks, that can be easily implemented to enhance noninvasive ventilation patient care, increase adherence to noninvasive ventilation treatment, and improve patient outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Communication impairment is an underappreciated cause of noninvasive ventilation complications and failure and requires further characterization. Analogous solutions—such as throat microphones and mask-based microphones—that can be easily implemented show potential as cost-effective methods to reduce noninvasive ventilation failure.