BACKGROUND We previously reported the use of an inverted T-shaped method to obtain a suitable view for hand sewing to close the common entry hole when the linear stapler was fired for esophagojejunostomy after laparoscopic total gastrectomy (LTG). This conventional method involved insertion of the fixed cartridge fork to the Roux limb and the fine movable anvil fork to the esophagus to avoid perforation of the jejunum. However, insertion of the movable anvil fork to the esophagus during this procedure often requires us to strongly push down the main body of the stapler with the fixed cartridge fork to bring the direction of the anvil fork in line with the direction of the long axis of the esophagus while controlling the opening of the movable anvil fork. We therefore modified this complicated inverted T-shaped method using a linear stapler with a movable cartridge fork. This modified method involved insertion of the movable cartridge fork into the Roux limb followed by natural, easy insertion of the fixed anvil fork into the esophagus without controlling the opening of the movable cartridge fork. METHODS We performed LTG in a total of 155 consecutive patients with gastric cancer from November 2007 to December 2015 in Kyushu University Hospital. After LTG, we performed the conventional inverted T-shaped method using a linear stapler with a fixed cartridge fork in 61 patients from November 2007 to July 2011 (fixed cartridge group). From August 2011, we used a linear stapler with a movable cartridge fork and performed the modified inverted T-shaped method in 94 patients (movable cartridge group). We herein compare the short-term outcomes in 94 cases of LTG using the modified method (movable cartridge fork) with those in 61 cases using the conventional method (fixed cartridge fork). RESULTS We found no significant differences in the perioperative or postoperative events between the movable and fixed cartridge groups. One case of anastomotic leakage occurred in the fixed cartridge group, but no anastomotic leakage occurred in the movable cartridge group. CONCLUSIONS Although there were no remarkable differences in the short-term outcomes between the movable and fixed cartridge groups, we believe that the modified inverted T-shaped method is technically more feasible and reliable than the conventional method and will contribute to the improved safety of LTG.