The recently emerged SARS-CoV-2 (Coronaviridae; Betacoronavirus) is the underlying cause of COVID-19 disease. Here we assessed SARS-CoV2 from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia alongside sequences of SARS-CoV, bat SARS-like CoVs and MERS-CoV, the latter currently detected in this region. Phylogenetic analysis, natural selection investigation and genome recombination analysis were performed. Our analysis showed that all Saudi SARS-CoV-2 sequences are of the same origin and closer proximity to bat SARS-like CoVs, followed by SARS-CoVs, however quite distant to MERS-CoV. Moreover, genome recombination analysis revealed two recombination events between SARS-CoV-2 and bat SARS-like CoVs. This was further assessed by S gene recombination analysis. These recombination events may be relevant to the emergence of this novel virus. Moreover, positive selection pressure was detected between SARS-CoV-2, bat SL-CoV isolates and human SARS-CoV isolates. However, the highest positive selection occurred between SARS-CoV-2 isolates and 2 bat-SL-CoV isolates (Bat-SL-RsSHC014 and Bat-SL-CoVZC45). This further indicates that SARS-CoV-2 isolates were adaptively evolved from bat SARS-like isolates, and that a virus with originating from bats triggered this pandemic. This study thuds sheds further light on the origin of this virus. AUTHOR SUMMARY The emergence and subsequent pandemic of SARS-CoV-2 is a unique challenge to countries all over the world, including Saudi Arabia where cases of the related MERS are still being reported. Saudi SARS-CoV-2 sequences were found to be likely of the same or similar origin. In our analysis, SARS-CoV-2 were more closely related to bat SARS-like CoVs rather than to MERS-CoV (which originated in Saudi Arabia) or SARS-CoV, confirming other phylogenetic efforts on this pathogen. Recombination and positive selection analysis further suggest that bat coronaviruses may be at the origin of SARS-CoV-2 sequences. The data shown here give hints on the origin of this virus and may inform efforts on transmissibility, host adaptation and other biological aspects of this virus.