Haemodynamic assessment during the transitional period in preterm infants is challenging. We aimed to describe the relationships between cerebral regional tissue oxygen saturation (CrSO2), perfusion index (PI), echocardiographic, and clinical parameters in extremely preterm infants in their first 72 h of life. Twenty newborns born at < 28 weeks of gestation were continuously monitored with CrSO2 and preductal PI. Cardiac output was measured at H6, H24, H48, and H72. The median gestational age and birth weight were 25.0 weeks (24-26) and 750 g (655-920), respectively. CrSO2 and preductal PI had r values < 0.35 with blood gases, lactates, haemoglobin, and mean blood pressure. Cardiac output significantly increased over the 72 h of the study period. Fifteen patients had at least one episode of low left and/or right ventricular output (RVO), during which there was a strong correlation between CrSO2 and superior vena cava (SVC) flow (at H6 (r = 0.74) and H24 (r = 0.86)) and between PI and RVO (at H6 (r = 0.68) and H24 (r = 0.92)). Five patients had low SVC flow (≤ 40 mL/kg/min) at H6, during which PI was strongly correlated with RVO (r = 0.98). CONCLUSION CrSO2 and preductal PI are strongly correlated with cardiac output during low cardiac output states. What is Known: • Perfusion index and near-infrared spectroscopy are non-invasive tools to evaluate haemodynamics in preterm infants. • Pre- and postductal perfusion indexes strongly correlate with left ventricular output in term infants, and near-infrared spectroscopy has been validated to assess cerebral oxygenation in term and preterm infants. What is New: • Cerebral regional tissue oxygen saturation and preductal perfusion index were strongly correlated with cardiac output during low cardiac output states. • The strength of the correlation between cerebral regional tissue oxygen saturation, preductal perfusion index, and cardiac output varied in the first 72 h of life, reflecting the complexity of the transitional physiology.