Introduction: Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) share their target receptor site with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, that may cause ACE2 receptor upregulation which raised concerns regarding ACEI and ARB use in COVID-19 patients. However, many medical professional societies recommended their continued use given the paucity of clinical evidence but there is need for an updated systematic review of latest clinical studies. Methods: A search was conducted on PubMed, Google Scholar, EMBASE and various preprint servers for studies comparing clinical outcomes and mortality in COVID-19 patients on ACEI and/or ARB. Results: A total of eight studies were included in the review. There were conflicting findings reported in several studies as Meng J. et al, Liu Y. et al and Feng Y. reported that patients on ACE inhibitors/ARB had lower rates of severe outcomes whereas Richardson S. et al reported higher rates of invasive ventilation and intensive care unit (ICU) admissions in patients on ACE inhibitors/ARB as compared to non-users. However, Zhang P. et al found slightly higher rates of ICU admissions in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARB as compared to non-users. Similarly, there were conflicting results in the rate of mortality reported by the various clinical studies as well. Meng J. et al, Li J. et al and Zhang P. et al reported lower rates of mortality in ACE inhibitors/ARB users versus non-users whereas Guo J. et al reported higher rates of mortality in patients on ACE inhibitors/ARB as compared to non-users. Additionally, a large study conducted in New York by Richardson S. et al raised concerns with worse mortality outcomes in patients on ACEI/ ARB. Conclusion: It is concluded that ACEI and ARB should be continued in COVID-19 patients, albeit while exercising caution until larger clinical studies and randomized controlled trials confirm their safety. Additionally, the individual patient factors like ACE2 polymorphisms which might confer higher risk of adverse outcomes need to be evaluated further.