BACKGROUND: Recently, mammalian orthoreoviruses (MRVs) were detected for the first time in European bats, and the closely related strain SI-MRV01 was isolated from a child with severe diarrhoea in Slovenia. Genetically similar strains have also been reported from other mammals, which reveals their wide host distribution. The aim of this study was to retrospectively investigate the occurrence and genetic diversity of MRVs in bats in Slovenia, from samples obtained throughout the country in 2008 to 2010, and in 2012 and to investigate the occurrence of the novel SI-MRV01 MRV variant in Slovenian bats. RESULTS: The detection of MRVs in bat guano was based on broad-range RT-PCR and specific bat MRV real-time RT-PCR. Subsequently, MRV isolates were obtained from cell culture propagation, with detailed molecular characterisation through whole-genome sequencing. Overall, bat MRVs were detected in 1.9% to 3.8% of bats in 2008, 2009 and 2012. However, in 2010 the prevalence was 33.0%, which defined an outbreak of the single SI-MRV01 strain. Here, we report on the identification of five MRV isolates of different serotypes that are designated as SI-MRV02, SI-MRV03, SI-MRV04, SI-MRV05 and SI-MRV06. There is high genetic variability between these characterised isolates, with evident genome reassortment seen across their genome segments. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, we have confirmed the presence of the SI-MRV01 strain in a Slovenian bat population. Moreover, according to genetic characterisation of S1 genome segment, all three MRV serotypes were present in the bat population. In this study, five independent MRV isolates were obtained and detailed whole genome analysis revealed high diversity between them. This study generates new information about the epidemiology and molecular characteristics of emerging bat MRV variants, and provides important molecular data for further studies of their pathogenesis and evolution. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1186/s12917-018-1585-y) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.