Background Indonesia has the highest rate of years of life lost to disability or early death from Schizophrenia than any other country in the world. More than 90% of people with mental illness do not get any treatment and tens of thousands of people with psychosis are illegally detained ('pasung') in the family home. Civic engagement, a core part of the recent World Health Organisation global strategy, has the potential to address some of these challenges through the development of person-centered models of care. The aim of the study is to develop a testable systems level, culturally appropriate, civic engagement framework for use in Jakarta and Bogor, Indonesia to strengthen local mental health services. Methods A mixed methods study underpinned by a realist approach will be undertaken across four phases in two study sites in Indonesia (Jakarta and Bogor). Phase 1 will explore the use of civic engagement across South East Asia by conducting a systematic review of existing evidence. By surveying 300 mental health professionals, phase 2 will identify the stakeholders, the sources of collaboration and the evidence used by professionals in decision making within local mental health systems and identify potential opportunities for civic engagement within the system. In order to explore the potential use of civic engagement within Indonesian mental health services and identify priorities for a culturally appropriate framework, phase 3 will undertake two focus groups with participants with experience of psychosis or caring for someone with psychosis (n = 20-30). Professionals and other key decision makers in a range of roles across the system at a national (n = 5) and local level (n = 10-15/site) will also take part in semi-structured interviews. Phase 4 will co-produce a civic engagement framework for use in Indonesia by synthesising evidence from phases 1-3 collaboratively with key stakeholders. Discussion Civic engagement is a potential way in which health services in low and middle income countries can address the burden of mental health conditions through the development of person-centred models of care. However, such approaches are underexplored in Indonesia. This study will work with local stakeholders to design a testable civic engagement framework for use in mental health services in Indonesia.