BACKGROUND Endoscopic insufflation has been associated with marked increase in intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) and hemodynamic and respiratory changes during transgastric surgery. OBJECTIVE To investigate the hemodynamic and respiratory effects during intraperitoneal cavity exploration through 3 different natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) access locations compared with laparoscopy. DESIGN AND SETTING Survival experiments using 40 female pigs randomized to transgastric, transcolonic, transvaginal, and laparoscopic peritoneoscopy. INTERVENTIONS On-demand endoscopic insufflation of CO(2) with feedback pressure regulation was used in NOTES with a maximum pressure of 14 mm Hg. In the laparoscopy group, the IAP was maintained at 14 mm Hg. NOTES procedures were performed by an endoscopist (with the assistance of a gynecologist in the transvaginal group and a second endoscopist in the transgastric and transrectal groups) and laparoscopy by 2 surgeons. MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS Invasive hemodynamic and respiratory data. Blood samples were drawn for gas analyses. RESULTS All experiments except one in the transrectal group were completed. The IAP was significantly lower in all NOTES groups compared with the laparoscopy group. A significant increase in mean systemic arterial blood pressure was observed in the laparoscopy group at 15 and 30 minutes of intraperitoneal cavity exploration, but it remained unchanged during all NOTES procedures. An increase in airway pressures was observed at 15 and 30 minutes of peritoneoscopy in the animals undergoing laparoscopy, whereas those parameters remained unchanged in the NOTES groups. The laparoscopy group showed a significant impairment in pulmonary gas exchange (decrease in Pao(2), increase in Paco(2), and decrease in arterial pH) after 30 minutes of peritoneoscopy, whereas only a slight increase in Paco(2) was observed in the transrectal and transvaginal groups. LIMITATIONS Healthy animal model. CONCLUSION On-demand endoscopic insufflation of CO(2) with feedback pressure regulation can minimize the risk of hemodynamic and respiratory compromise caused by acute changes in IAP.