Groundwater is a vital source of freshwater in both urban and rural regions of the world. However, its injudicious abstraction and rapidly increasing contamination are posing a severe threat for sustainable water supply worldwide. Geographical Information System (GIS)-based groundwater quality evaluation using Groundwater Quality Index (GQI) has been proved to be a cost-effective tool for assessing groundwater quality and its variability at a larger scale. However, the conventional GQI approach is unable to deal with uncertainties involved in the assessment of environmental problems. To overcome this limitation, a novel hybrid framework integrating Fuzzy Logic with the GIS-based GQI is proposed in this study for assessing groundwater quality and its spatial variability. The proposed hybrid framework is demonstrated through a case study in a hard-rock terrain of Southern India using ten prominent groundwater-quality parameters measured during pre-monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. Two conventional GIS-based GQI models GQI-10 (using all the ten groundwater-quality parameters) and GQI-7 (using seven 'concerned/critical' groundwater-quality parameters) as well as hybrid Fuzzy-GIS-based GQI (FGQI) models (using seven critical parameters) were developed for the two seasons and the results were compared. The Trapezoidal membership functions classified the model input parameters into 'desirable', 'acceptable' and 'unacceptable' classes based on the experts' knowledge and water quality standards for drinking purposes. The concentrations of Ca2+, Mg2+, and SO42- in groundwater were found within the WHO desirable limits for drinking water throughout the year, while the concentrations of seven parameters (TDS, NO3--N, Na+, Cl-, K+, F- and Hardness) exceed their permissible limits during pre-monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. A comparative evaluation of GQI models revealed that the FGQI model predicts groundwater quality better than the conventional GQI-10 and GQI-7 models. GQI modeling results suggest that the groundwater of most of eastern and southern parts (∼60% in pre-monsoon season; ∼90% in post-monsoon season) of the study area is unsuitable for drinking. Further, the groundwater quality deteriorates during post-monsoon seasons compared to pre-monsoon seasons, which indicates an increased influx of contaminants from different industries, mining areas, waste disposal sites and agricultural fields during monsoon seasons. This finding calls for the strict enforcement of regulations for proper handling of effluents from various contamination sources in the study area. It is concluded that the fuzzy logic-based decision-making approach (FGQI) is more reliable and pragmatic for groundwater-quality assessment and analysis at a larger scale. It can serve as a useful tool for the water planners and decision makers in efficiently monitoring and managing groundwater quality at watershed or basin scales.