Blood blister-like aneurysms (BBA) were described for the first time in the 1990s, as small hemispherical bulges arising from a very fragile arterial wall. Until 2008, it was thought that this type of aneurysm almost exclusively affected the internal carotid artery, in particular, its dorsal portion. Subsequently, it was discovered that a BBA may also be present on the anterior communicating artery and on the vessels of the posterior cranial fossa. However, we found no reports in English-language literature of BBA arising from the middle cerebral artery (MCA). In this article, we present three cases of MCA BBA and discuss the unique diagnostic and therapeutic aspects of this vascular lesion. In our retrospective, multicenter review of 1330 patients with non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage admitted to our services from 2000 to 2013, we found three cases (all in men) of MCA BBA. The patients' outcome was assessed using the modified Rankin scale. All three patients underwent angio-computed tomography, which did not reveal any aneurysms. Digital subtraction angiography performed within 24-48 h after admission, in all cases, demonstrated a very small aneurysm (<2 mm), with a triangular shape and abroad base, at non-branching sites of MCA. All the aneurysms were treated: one by wrapping + clipping, one by wrapping + flow-diverter stent, and one with coils. At the time of surgery, the aneurysms appeared on the surface of the parent artery without any involvement of the branches. All presented as blister-like aneurysms that were thin-walled and lacked a surgical neck. At the time of discharge, the outcome was good in one patient and poor in the other two. Our cases demonstrate that BBA can also arise from the MCA, despite the lack of previous reports of this occurrence; a BBA should be suspected, particularly in cases of non-perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage in which the presence of a MCA aneurysm is suspected but not revealed by digital subtraction angiography or angio-computed tomography.