INTRODUCTION New training models are needed to maintain safety and quality of surgical performance. A simulated setting using virtual reality, synthetic, and/or organic models should precede traditional supervised training in the operating room. AIM The aim of the paper is to describe the Laparoscopic Surgical Skills (LSS) programme and to provide information about preliminary evaluation of Grade I Level 1 courses, including overall quality, applicability of the course content in practice and the balance between theory and hands-on training modules, by participating trainees. MATERIAL AND METHODS During 5 accredited LSS Grade I Level 1 courses held in Eindhoven (the Netherlands), Kosice (Slovak Republic), and Lisbon (Portugal) between April 2011 and January 2012, demographic data and pre-course surgical experience in laparoscopic surgery of the participants were recorded. The final course evaluation form was completed by each participant after the course (anonymous) to evaluate course progress, course materials, assessment, staff, location and overall impression of the course on a 1-10 scale to obtain feedback information. RESULTS Forty-seven surgeons of 5 different nationalities were enrolled in an LSS Grade I Level 1 programme. Most participants were first or second year residents (n = 25), but also already established surgeons took part (n = 6). The mean age of the participants was 31.2 years (SD = 2.86), the male/female ratio was 32/15, and previous experience with laparoscopic surgery was limited. Overall impression of the course was rated with 8.7 points (SD = 0.78). The applicability of the course content in practice and the balance between theory and hands-on training were also rated very well - mean 8.8 (SD = 1.01) and 8.1 points (SD = 0.80) respectively. CONCLUSIONS Laparoscopic Surgical Skills Grade I Level 1 courses are evaluated as well balanced, with content applicable in clinical practice, meeting the expectations of individual participants. International interest in the programme suggests that LSS might become the future European standard in surgical education in laparoscopic surgery. Further conclusions concerning success of the programme may be drawn after the completion of clinical assessment of enrolled participants.