Summary Background Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) is defined as radiologically confirmed pneumonia occurring ≥48h after hospitalization, in non-intubated patients. Empirical treatment regimens use broad-spectrum antimicrobials. Aim To evaluate the accuracy of the diagnosis of HAP and to describe the demographic and microbiological features of patients with HAP. Methods Medical and surgical inpatients receiving intravenous antimicrobials for a clinical diagnosis of HAP at a UK tertiary care hospital between April 2013 and 2014 were identified. Demographic and clinical details were recorded. Findings A total of 166 adult patients with a clinical diagnosis of HAP were identified. Broad-spectrum antimicrobials were prescribed, primarily piperacillin–tazobactam (57.2%) and co-amoxiclav (12.5%). Sputum from 24.7% of patients was obtained for culture. Sixty-five percent of patients had radiological evidence of new/progressive infiltrate at the time of HAP treatment, therefore meeting HAP diagnostic criteria (2005 American Thoracic Society/Infectious Diseases Society of America guidelines). Radiologically confirmed HAP was associated with higher levels of inflammatory markers and sputum culture positivity. Previous surgery and/or endotracheal intubation were associated with radiologically confirmed HAP. A bacterial pathogen was identified from 17/35 sputum samples from radiologically confirmed HAP patients. These were Gram-negative bacilli (N = 11) or Staphylococcus aureus (N = 6). Gram-negative bacteria tended to be resistant to co-amoxiclav, but susceptible to ciprofloxacin, piperacillin–tazobactam and meropenem. Five of the six S. aureus isolates were meticillin susceptible and all were susceptible to doxycycline. Conclusion In ward-level hospital practice ‘HAP’ is an over-used diagnosis that may be inaccurate in 35% of cases when objective radiological criteria are applied. Radiologically confirmed HAP represents a distinct clinical and microbiological phenotype. Potential risk factors were identified that could represent targets for preventive interventions.