Adaptation of species to new environments is governed by natural selection that discriminates among genetic variations and favors survival of the fittest. Here, we propose climate plays an important role in the evolution of SARS CoV-2 and the spread of COVID-19 all over the world which was previously not known. To understand the climatic factors responsible for shaping the molecular determinants of the novel coronavirus, genotyping SARS CoV-2 across different latitudes and Koppen’s climate is imperative. It seems this virus follows inverse latitudinal biodiversity gradient due to its preference towards Koppen’s temperate (C) and cold climate (D). Our molecular phylogenetic analysis revealed division of 176 SARS CoV-2 strains into two variant groups, G1 and G2, well defined by four mutations. Initially, SARS CoV-2 was restricted to a “humid-subtropical” (Cfa) climate of southeast China, which soon spread all over the world having C climate. Genomic information superimposed on global Koppen’s climate map elucidates that the gradation “humid-subtropical” (Cfa) and “marine-temperate” (Cfb) to “humid-continental” (Dfa-Dfb) climate drives the evolution of G1 into G2 variant group. It seems an early infection in Europe and USA is due to the dominance of C climate. Russia and North America were infected through linkage of C to D climate and South America from C to A climate. Our study elucidates viruses are sensitive to climate and combined genomic and climatic studies provide crucial information about the pathogenesis and natural spreading pathways during a pandemic which will enable us to take pre-emptive precautionary measures in such outbreaks. Graphical Abstract In Brief The authors elucidate adaptation of SARS CoV-2 to different climates by studying phylogenetics and the distribution of strains on Koppen’s climate map. Highlights SARS CoV-2 follows inverse latitudinal gradient. Phylogenetic network divides SARS CoV-2 strains into two variant groups, G1 and G2. G1 strains is restricted to Koppen’s “temperate” climate (mainly Cfa-Cfb). G2 strains has evolved from G1 to sustain in “humid-continental” (Dfa-Dfb) and “tropical-savannah” (Aw) climate.