BACKGROUND Robot-assisted simple prostatectomy (RASP) is a minimally invasive procedure for treatment of patients with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) due to large benign prostatic enlargement (BPE). OBJECTIVE To present the perioperative and short-term functional outcomes of RASP in a large series of patients with LUTS due to BPE treated in a high-volume referral center. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS We retrospectively collected data for 67 consecutive patients who underwent RASP from October 2008 to August 2014. SURGICAL PROCEDURE RASP was performed using a Da Vinci S or Si system with a transvesical approach. MEASUREMENTS Complications were graded according to the Clavien-Dindo system. Continuous variables are reported as median and interquartile range (IQR). Comparison of preoperative and postoperative outcomes was assessed by Wilcoxon test. A two-sided value of p<0.05 was considered statistically significant. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS The median preoperative prostate volume was 129ml (IQR 104-180). For the 45 patients who did not have an indwelling catheter, the median preoperative International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) was 25 (20.5-28), the median maximum flow rate (Qmax) was 7ml/s (IQR 5-11), and the median post-void residual volume (PVRV) was 73ml (IQR 40-116). The median operative time was 97min (IQR 80-127) and the median estimated blood loss was 200ml (IQR 115-360). The postoperative complication rate was 30%, including three cases (4.5%) with grade 3b complications (major bleeding requiring cystoscopy and coagulation). The median catheterization time was 3 d (IQR 2-4) and the median length of stay was 4 d (IQR 3-5). The median follow-up was 6 mo (IQR 2-12). At follow-up, the median IPSS was 3 (IQR 0-8), the median Qmax was 23ml/s (IQR 16-35), and the median PVRV was 0ml (IQR 0-36) (all p<0.001 vs baseline values). The retrospective design is the major study limitation. CONCLUSIONS Our data indicate good perioperative outcomes, an acceptable risk profile, and excellent improvements in patient symptoms and flow scores at short-term follow-up following RASP. PATIENT SUMMARY We analyzed the perioperative and functional outcomes of robot-assisted simple prostatectomy in the treatment of male patients with lower urinary tract symptoms due to large prostatic adenoma. The procedure was associated with a relatively low risk of complications and excellent functional outcomes, including considerable improvements in symptoms and flow performance. We can conclude that the procedure is a valuable option in the treatment of such patients. However, comparative studies evaluating the efficacy of the procedure in comparison with endoscopic treatment of large prostatic adenomas are needed.