The aim of this study was to investigate potential differences in the local nasal immune response between bronchiolitis and upper respiratory tract infection induced by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). Nasal brush samples were obtained from 14 infants with RSV bronchiolitis and from 8 infants with RSV upper respiratory tract infection. The samples were taken during infection (acute phase) and 2–4 weeks later (convalescent phase). Cytospin preparations were stained immunohistochemically for T cells, macrophages, and eosinophils. Staining also took place for intercellular adhesion molecule‐1 (ICAM‐1), T‐helper 1 (Th1)‐like (interleukin‐12 [IL‐12], interferon‐γ [IFN‐γ]), Th2‐like (IL‐4, IL‐10), and proinflammatory cytokines (IL‐6, IL‐8, IL‐18). During both RSV‐induced bronchiolitis and upper respiratory tract infection, cellular inflammation was observed. This was characterised by an increase in the numbers of nasal macrophages, which tended to be higher in bronchiolitis than in upper respiratory tract infection. Numbers of T lymphocytes and ICAM‐1 positive cells increased during both bronchiolitis and upper respiratory tract infection. There were no differences between numbers in the groups. Interestingly, a distinct nasal proinflammatory cytokine response was observed in RSV‐induced bronchiolitis. This is characterised by an increase in the number of IL‐18 positive cells. This increase is specific for bronchiolitis, as a similar increase could not be detected in RSV‐induced upper respiratory tract infection. Numbers of IL‐6 and IL‐12 positive cells were higher in both bronchiolitis and upper respiratory tract infection, and there were no differences between the groups. By contrast, the number of IL‐8, IFN‐γ, IL‐4, and IL‐10‐positive cells remained constant. In conclusion, clear differences were found in nasal immune responses of children with RSV‐induced upper respiratory tract infection or bronchiolitis. The induction of a strong IL‐18 response was typical for bronchiolitis, as this could not be observed in RSV‐induced upper respiratory tract infection, and could explain the eosinophilia that is observed frequently during bronchiolitis. J. Med. Virol. 71:290–297, 2003. © 2003 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.