BACKGROUND Peritoneal dialysis (PD) for acute kidney injury (AKI) of newborns has been performed safely. AKI occurs in 8 to 24% of extremely low birth weight (ELBW) infants. Although PD has only been used occasionally in ELBW infants, prognosis is poor for ELBW infants with AKI. Several reports have described successful PD in these infants, but no guideline-based evidence concerning indications for renal replacement therapy in ELBW infants are currently available. Here, we report on our experience with PD in an ELBW infant with AKI resulting from septic shock. CASE PRESENTATION A male was born at 24 weeks and 3 days gestation weighing 264 g by emergency cesarean section due to complications of pregnancy in a patient with hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelets (HELLP) syndrome. On day of life (DOL) 15, the inability to ventilate, along with cardiovascular dysfunction, acute kidney injury, and ascites under tension led to the tentative diagnosis of abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS). On DOL 17, placement of a percutaneous drainage tube immediately released compression of the tense abdomen. Although intra-abdominal pressure reduction with percutaneous drainage temporarily improved respiratory status, circulatory impairment persisted and infections were not well controlled. Finally, the patient developed anuria. On DOL 21, peritoneal dialysis (PD) was started by initially inserting a drainage tube. Although the patient had catheter-associated peritonitis, urine output improved by DOL 44 and PD was discontinued on DOL 53. On DOL 75, extubation was conducted without circulatory dysfunction. The patient was discharged on DOL 224. CONCLUSIONS We emphasize that starting PD treatment before the onset of anuria is important in ELBW infants with AKI. Although the catheter used in our case was initially inserted for drainage of ascites, this type of catheter is sufficiently useful for PD in ELBW infants, and PD using a drainage tube may represent a safe, effective, and minimally invasive treatment for ELBW infants. To our knowledge, this is the first report to describe the use of a percutaneous tube to conduct successful PD for peritoneal drainage in an ELBW infant. This is the lowest-weight ELBW infant with successful PD reported to date.