BACKGROUND Laparoscopic total proctocolectomy (TPC) with or without ileoanal pouch is a major operation for which the traditional benefits of laparoscopy were not immediately apparent, in part due to the longer operating times. The use of energy devices has been shown to improve operative outcomes for patients who undergo laparoscopic segmental colectomies, but there are limited data for laparoscopic TPC (LTPC). METHODS All patients who underwent LTPC between January 2002 and July 2011 were identified from a prospectively maintained institutional-review-board-approved database. Univariate and multiple linear regression analyses were performed to assess the impact of electrothermal bipolar vessel sealers (EBVS) for vessel ligation on operative time. Secondary outcomes included vessel ligation failures, estimated blood loss, and other intra- and postoperative outcomes. RESULTS One hundred and forty-five patients underwent LTPC, including 126 restorative ileoanal pouch and diverting ileostomy operations and 19 TPC and end ileostomy procedures. Fifteen percent of LTPCs were totally laparoscopic, 45 % were laparoscopic-assisted, 32 % were hand-assisted, and 8 % were laparoscopic-converted cases. Laparoscopic vessel ligation was performed using EBVS (76 %), endoscopic staplers (12 %), or hybrid techniques (12 %). Vessel ligation groups were similar in demographics, body mass index, surgical indication, immunosuppression, and prior surgery. EBVS were associated with shorter median operative times (247 vs. 290 vs. 300 min, p = 0.018) and fewer vessel ligation failures (1 vs. 11 vs. 12 %, p = 0.027) compared with endoscopic staplers and hybrid techniques, respectively. There were no differences in estimated blood loss and intra-operative complications among the three groups. Length of stay, 30-day morbidity, and 30-day re-operation rates were also similar. On multiple linear regression analysis, EBVS were a significant predictor of operative time (p = 0.019). CONCLUSIONS Routine use of electrothermal bipolar vessel ligation for LTPC is associated with shorter operative time and fewer vessel ligation failures without higher risk of complications than other vessel control methods.