Since December 2019 a novel a coronavirus identified as SARS-CoV-2 or COV2 has been spreading around the world. On the 16th of May around 4.5 million people got infected and over 300,000 died due to the infection of COV2. The effective treatment remains a challenge. Targeted therapeutics are still under investigation. The papain-like protease (PLPro) from the human SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus is a cysteine protease that plays a critical role in virus replication. Its activity is required to process the viral polyprotein into functional, mature subunits. Moreover, COV2 uses this enzyme to modulate the host’s immune system to its own benefit. Therefore, it represents a highly promising target for the development of antiviral drugs. In this work, we discovered that ebselen, a synthetic organoselenium drug molecule with anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant and cytoprotective activity in mammalian cells and cytotoxicity in lower organisms, is a highly active inhibitor of PLProCoV2. We proved that ebselen is a covalent, fast-binding inhibitor of PLProCoV2 exhibiting a low micromolar potency. Furthermore, we identified a difference between PLPro from SARS-CoV-1 (the corona virus which caused the 2002–2004 outbreak, SARS) and SARS-CoV-2 that allows to explain the difference in dynamics of the replication, and, thus, the disease progression. Namely, we present that they show differences in the binding affinity of substrates that we observed through kinetics and molecular docking studies. Using a novel Approximate Bayesian Computation method we were able to find kinetic constants for both enzymes. Molecular modeling study on the structure of the active site and binding mode of the ebselen with SARS and COV2 showed also significant differences that could explain our observation that ebselen is less active and slower bounding with SARS than COV2. In conclusion, we show that ebselen inhibits the activity of the essential viral enzyme papain-like protease (PLpro) from SARS-COV-2 in low micromolar range.