Objective: To analyze the clinical characteristics of 34 COVID-19 cases and to provide the basis for the prevention and control of the epidemic disease. Methods: Thirty-four COVID-19 patients diagnosed with RT-PCR in the isolation ward of the Fourth People's Hospital of Ningxia Hui autonomous region (infectious diseases hospital) from the January 22 to February 4, 2020 were selected as the research subjects. The clinical data were collected. Excel was used to describe the relationship between clinical classification and age distribution, contact history and date of onset. SPSS 25.0 statistical software was used for analysis. The general information, clinical symptoms, blood test, virus nucleic acid test results, epidemiology, CT imaging, treatment and prognosis were analyzed. Results: There were 5 mild cases (5/34), 24 ordinary cases (24/34), 5 severe cases (5/34). The elderly was more common in severe patients. The main clinical symptoms were fever (27/34)and dry cough(26/34). The peripheral blood showed normal or decreased leukocyte count (33/34), decreased lymphocyte count (12/34). The increase of C-reactive protein (CRP) and D-dimer was related to the severity of the disease. Some patients had mild liver and kidney damage. Six patients were diagnosed through 3 or more times of nucleic acid tests. Sixteen cases had Wuhan related history,13 cases were close contacts, 5 cases had no confirmed route. The clustered infections were found in 6 families. In typical cases, CT showed single or multiple patchy ground glass shadow with thickening of interlobular septum. In severe cases, diffuse lesions of both lungs were found, with ground glass shadow, consolidation shadow and strip shadow coexisting. Thirty-four patients were treated with interferon-α and Lopinavir/Ritonavir with good prognosis. Conclusions: The clinical characteristics of COVID-19 were similar to that of general viral pneumonia but with strong infectivity. Close contact and family aggregation caused disease outbreaks. COVID-19 could not be excluded if two nucleic acid tests were negative and high-resolution CT was helpful for differential diagnosis. Early detection, early isolation, early diagnosis and early treatment are important for good prognosis. The effectiveness of antiviral drugs needs to be further verified.