Single-incision laparoscopic colectomy (SLC) is touted as an improved approach to minimally invasive surgery, although no data currently exist regarding the acquisition of this technique. The aim of this study was to evaluate resident performance and outcomes in patients undergoing SLC performed by residents vs. staff colorectal surgeons. A retrospective case-control study was conducted, including 220 patients who underwent elective surgical intervention with multiport laparoscopic colectomy (MLC, n=141) or SLC (n=79) for colon cancer over a 24-month period at Yao Municipal Hospital (Yao, Japan). Data on patient demographics, operative data, oncological outcomes and short-term outcomes were evaluated for statistical significance. To investigate issues regarding the surgical procedures, the entire operation was recorded on video for all patients and was divided into 6 procedures, with each procedure measured in seconds. Senior-level residents were able to safely perform MLC under appropriate experienced supervision. For SLC, 1 case required conversion to an open procedure. No case required additional trocar placement. The mean operative times were similar for the staff and resident groups for total colon cancer (192.5 and 217.5 min, respectively; P=0.88), whereas the operative times of the staff group for right-sided colon cancer were significantly longer, and the operative times of the resident group for left-sided colon cancer were significantly longer. In addition, the overall perioperative outcomes, including blood loss, number of harvested lymph nodes, length of the surgical margin and complications, were similar between the two groups. When video recordings were evaluated by dividing the surgical process for the right colon into 4 procedures and that for the left colon into 6 procedures, the results demonstrated that the residents required more time to close the mesenteric margin for the left colon compared with the staff performing the same procedure (3,470.1±1,258.5 vs. 5,218.6±2,341.2 sec; P=0.01). Therefore, senior-level residents were able to safely perform SLC under appropriate experienced supervision. For the left colon, the main challenge for the residents appeared to be the closure of the mesenteric margin. Our data support that it is possible to train senior residents to complete a SLC safely and with the same efficacy as staff surgeons.