BACKGROUND Chronic abdominal pain can occur after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), and can remain unexplained despite extensive investigation. Bile can pool in the gastric remnant and create a bile reflux gastropathy. The aim of this study was to assess gastric remnant findings in patients with RYGB and chronic abdominal pain of unclear etiology, and to determine the effectiveness of ursodiol therapy for patients with confirmed remnant gastropathy. METHODS All consecutive patients with RYGB and a diagnosis of chronic abdominal pain, and a negative diagnostic workup (including physical examination, routine laboratory work, cross-sectional imaging, and standard upper endoscopy), who underwent device-assisted enteroscopy for evaluation of the gastric remnant, were included. Pathology reports, treatments, and clinical follow-up were recorded. RESULTS 28 post-RYGB patients (all female) with chronic abdominal pain and negative evaluation were included. Pooling of bile with gastric erythema was noted in 22/28 patients. All 22 patients with endoscopic erythema had pathology consistent with bile reflux chemical gastropathy. Of these patients, 12 were started on a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) alone, and 10 were started on ursodiol. Of the ursodiol group, 8/10 (80%) patients reported substantial improvement or resolution of abdominal pain at clinical follow-up. All three ursodiol patients with repeat endoscopic examination of the gastric remnant had endoscopic and histologic resolution of gastropathy. Of the PPI patients, 1/12 reported improvement in abdominal pain at clinical follow-up (p = 0.002), and both patients with repeat endoscopic examination of the gastric remnant had persistent remnant gastropathy. CONCLUSIONS Roux-en-Y gastric bypass patients with unexplained chronic pain, and biopsy-confirmed chemical gastropathy, had a significantly higher rate of abdominal pain resolution with ursodiol treatment compared to PPI. Remnant gastropathy due to bile reflux is a treatable cause of chronic abdominal pain in RYGB patients, and ursodiol should be considered for empiric treatment in RYGB patients with unexplained chronic abdominal pain.