BACKGROUND: There is a dearth of drug therapies available for the treatment of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Certain metabolites play a key role in ARDS and could serve as potential targets for developing therapies against this respiratory disorder. The present study was designed to determine such “functional metabolites” in ARDS using metabolomics and in vivo experiments in a mouse model. METHODS: Metabolomic profiles of blood plasma from 42 ARDS patients and 28 healthy controls were captured using Ultra-high performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) assay. Univariate and multivariate statistical analysis were performed on metabolomic profiles from blood plasma of ARDS patients and healthy controls to screen for “functional metabolites”, which were determined by variable importance in projection (VIP) scores and P value. Pathway analysis of all the metabolites was performed. The mouse model of ARDS was established to investigate the role of “functional metabolites” in the lung injury and mortality caused by the respiratory disorder. RESULTS: The metabolomic profiles of patients with ARDS were significantly different from healthy controls, difference was also observed between metabolomic profiles of the non-survivors and the survivors among the ARDS patient pool. Levels of Phenylalanine, D-Phenylalanine and Phenylacetylglutamine were significantly increased in non-survivors compared to the survivors of ARDS. Phenylalanine metabolism was the most notably altered pathway between the non-survivors and survivors of ARDS patients. In vivo animal experiments demonstrated that high levels of Phenylalanine might be associated with the severer lung injury and increased mortality of ARDS. CONCLUSION: Increased mortality of acute respiratory distress syndrome was associated with high levels of plasma Phenylalanine. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry, ChiCTR1800015930. Registered 29 April 2018, http://www.chictr.org.cn/edit.aspx?pid=25609&htm=4