In this study, the characteristics of porcine circovirus-2 (PCV2) replication (infectious virus titrations, distribution, and immunophenotyping of infected cells) in lymphoid organs were examined and related to the development of clinical signs and histological lesions in 26 piglets that had been inoculated with PCV2 either in utero or at 1 day of age. Piglets inoculated in utero at 92 or 104 gestational days (n = 12) were collected by Caesarean section at term and either sacrificed immediately or kept in isolators and allowed to live postnatally until 35 days postinoculation (PI). Caesarean-derived piglets inoculated at 1 day of age (n = 14) were sacrificed at 10, 21, 35, 42, and 49 days PI. Spleen and lymph nodes were collected for virologic and histopathological examinations. Clinical signs were not observed in any of the piglets. High virus titers (10(4.5-5.7) TCID50/g [TCID refers to tissue culture infectious dose]) were detected in 6 of the 26 piglets. Three of these 6 piglets were euthanized at 10 days PI, and infected cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage (SWC3+, CD14+, and sialoadhesin [Sa]+ cells) and infected cells bearing lymphocyte markers (CD4+, CD8+, and immunoglobulin M+ cells) were identified by double-immunofluorescence labeling on serial cryostat sections. The other 3 piglets were euthanized at 21 and 35 days PI, and the majority of infected cells were SWC3+, CD14+, and Sa-. The absence of Sa in these infected cells, together with their localization in lymphocyte-dependent regions, suggests that they were infiltrating monocytic cells. Sialoadhesin is highly expressed in differentiated macrophages and not in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In all 6 piglets with high virus titers, lymphocyte depletion and infiltration of monocytic cells were observed. In the remaining 20 piglets with virus titers less than 10(4.5) TCID50/g, the majority of infected cells were SWC3+, CD14+, and Sa+. In conclusion, it can be stated that high PCV2 titers in lymphoid organs may lead to the development of histological lesions similar to those observed in pigs with postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome without causing disease. Furthermore, in lymphoid organs with high virus titers, infection occurs mainly in infiltrating monocytic cells and to a limited extent in cells bearing lymphocyte markers.