BACKGROUND: The global coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic has highlighted the importance of understanding the cardiovascular implications of coronavirus infections, with more severe disease in those with cardiovascular co-morbidities, and resulting cardiac manifestations such as myocardial injury, arrhythmias, and heart failure. DESIGN: A systematic review of the current knowledge on the effects of coronavirus infection on the cardiovascular system in humans was performed and results were summarized. METHODS: Databases such as MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL, Scopus, Web of Science, ClinicalTrials.gov, Chinese Knowledge Resource Integrated Database and Chinese Clinical Trial Registry were searched on 20 March 2020. RESULTS: In total, 135 studies were included, involving severe acute respiratory syndrome, Middle East respiratory syndrome, coronavirus disease 2019 and other coronaviruses. Most were case reports, case series and cohort studies of poor to fair quality. In post-mortem examinations of subjects who died from infection, around half had virus identified in heart tissues in severe acute respiratory syndrome, but none in Middle East respiratory syndrome and coronavirus disease 2019. Cardiac manifestations reported include tachycardia, bradycardia, arrhythmias, and myocardial injury, secondary to both systemic infection and treatment. Cardiac injury and arrhythmias are more prevalent in coronavirus disease 2019, and elevated cardiac markers are associated with intensive care unit admission and death. In severe acute respiratory syndrome, Middle East respiratory syndrome, and coronavirus disease 2019, comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and heart disease are associated with intensive care unit admission, mechanical ventilation, and mortality. There were cases of misdiagnosis due to overlapping presentations of cardiovascular diseases and coronavirus infections, leading to hospital spread and delayed management of life-threatening conditions. CONCLUSION: This review highlighted the ways in which coronaviruses affect cardiovascular function and interacts with pre-existing cardiovascular diseases.