The purpose of this study was to assess the immune response in pigs intradermally vaccinated with a commercially available attenuated porcine reproductive and respiratory virus (PRRSV) vaccine (Porcilis PRRS) and subsequently exposed to a heterologous (Italian cluster) field strain of virulent PRRSV. A total of 18, 4-week-old pigs seronegative for PRRSV were allocated to 1 of 3 groups (groups A, B, and C). At 5 weeks of age, pigs of groups A (n=6 pigs) and B (n=6 pigs) were vaccinated intramuscularly and intradermally, respectively, with Porcilis PRRS. The more conventional intramuscular route of vaccination was included for comparative purposes with the intradermal route of vaccination (performed with the I.D.A.L. vaccinator). Pigs of group C (n=6 pigs) were kept as nonvaccinated controls. At post-vaccination (PV) days 7, 14, 21, 28, and 35, blood samples were collected for detection of vaccine virus (PCR) and antibodies (ELISA), and for changes in PBMC (flow cytometry). At PV day 35, pigs of all groups were each exposed (challenged) intranasally to a heterologous field strain (78% ORF5 sequence homology between vaccine and field virus) belonging to the Italian cluster of the European genotype of PRRSV. At post-challenge (PC) days 0, 3, 7, 10, 13, and 17, blood samples were collected for detection and quantitation of virus and antibodies, and for changes in PBMC as described above for blood samples collected PV. Throughout the experiment all pigs were observed daily for clinical signs. At PC days 7 and 17, two pigs and four pigs, respectively, of each group were euthanized and examined for macroscopic lesions. Following vaccination some pigs of groups A and B had a detectable viremia that in two pigs (one pig of group A and one pig of group B) lasted until PV day 28. However, all pigs (groups A, B, and C) remained clinically normal. All vaccinated pigs developed a serological response (ELISA) to PRRSV. Presumptive evidence for vaccine-induced protective immunity against the heterologous challenge strain was provided by finding that viremia following challenge was generally less (incidence) and significantly less (titers) in vaccinated pigs than in nonvaccinated pigs. No differences were apparent between pigs vaccinated intramuscularly and those vaccinated intradermally. The absence of virulent-virus-induced clinical signs and macroscopic lesions in nonvaccinated as well as in vaccinated pigs precluded a more definitive evaluation of the magnitude of protective immunity provided by vaccination or by the route of vaccination. Some likely treatment-associated changes in lymphocyte subpopulations were observed among the three treatment groups. These changes and their potential relationship to protective immunity are discussed.