Since many SARS-CoV-2 carriers are assumed to exhibit no or few non-specific symptoms, SARS-CoV-2 circulation among human populations may be detected too lately and only when massive human testing is available or when clinal COVID-19 cases are reported. This is obviously a major pitfall for evaluating and possibly controlling the current epidemic. Due to the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in stool samples qualitative detection of SARS-CoV-2 in wastewaters has recently been proposed as a complementary tool to investigate the virus circulation in human populations. If this assumption is correct, SARS-CoV-2 relative amounts in wastewaters should correlate with the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases. To test this hypothesis, we performed a time-course quantitative analysis of SARS-CoV2 by RT-qPCR in 23 raw and 8 treated wastewater samples collected from 3 major wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) of the Parisian area collecting 3 to 4 million inhabitants reject. This study was conducted from 5 March to 7 April 2020. All raw wastewater samples scored positive for SARS-CoV2. Additionally, 6 out of 8 samples from treated wastewater scored positive by RT-qPCR. Treated wastewater effluents showed a 100 times reduction in the viral load compared to the corresponding raw wastewater samples, which agrees with previous work on enteric viruses. We next compared the average level of SARS-CoV2 genomes in wastewater samples over time with the number of confirmed fatal cases of COVID19 in Paris area and in France As expected, we confirmed that the increase of genome units in raw wastewaters accurately followed the increase in the number of fatal cases observed at the regional and national level Therefore, our study demonstrates that the contamination of wastewater and the detection of viral genome occurred before the beginning of the exponential growth of the epidemic. This work demonstrated that a quantitative monitoring of SARS-CoV2 genomes in wastewaters should bring important and additional information for better survey of SARS-CoV2 circulation at the local or regional scale. Additionally, wastewater survey may provide an alternative and possibly early tool to detect pathogens in populations when investigations in humans is difficult for logistic, ethical or economic reasons.