INTRODUCTION: With increasing survival rates, intestinal transplantation (ITx) and multivisceral transplantation have reached the mainstream of medical care. Pediatric candidates for ITx often suffer from severe multisystem impairments that pose challenges to the medical team. These patients frequently require intensive care preoperatively and have unique intensive care needs postoperatively. METHODS: We reviewed the literature on intensive care of pediatric intestinal transplantation as well as our own experience. This review is not aimed only at pediatric intensivists from ITx centers; these patients frequently require ICU care at other institutions. RESULTS: Preoperative management focuses on optimization of organ function, minimizing ventilator-induced lung injury, preventing excessive edema yet maintaining adequate organ perfusion, preventing and controlling sepsis and bleeding from varices at enterocutaneous interfaces, and optimizing nutritional support. The goal is to extend life in stable condition to the point of transplantation. Postoperative care focuses on optimizing perfusion of the mesenteric circulation by maintaining intravascular volume, minimizing hypercoagulability, and providing adequate oxygen delivery. Careful monitoring of the stoma and its output and correction of electrolyte imbalances that may require renal replacement therapy is critical, as are monitoring for and aggressively treating infections, which often present with only subtle clinical clues. Signs of intestinal rejection may be non-specific, and early differentiation from other causes of intestinal dysfunction is important. Understanding of the expanding armamentarium of immunosuppressive agents and their side-effects is required. CONCLUSIONS: As outcomes of ITx improve, transplant teams accept patients with higher pre-operative morbidity and at higher risk for complications. Many ITx patients would benefit from earlier referral for transplant evaluation before severe liver disease, recurrent central venous catheter-related sepsis and venous thromboses develop.