OBJECTIVE Single incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) is a "scar-less" new surgical technique which has been gaining popularity over recent years. In comparison to conventional multiport laparoscopic surgery, SILS is introduced as a less invasive method. This technique has also been applied to colorectal surgery. The aim of the presenting study is to investigate the applicability of SILS and report short term results. MATERIAL AND METHODS We evaluated prospectively collected data of 24 patients who had been operated with "Single Incision Laparoscopic Colon Resection (SILCR)" in our clinic between June 2011-June 2013. Informed consent was obtained from all patients before surgery. Patient data such as ASA and BMI values, need for additional surgery, tumors, number of lymph nodes resected, length of hospital stay, length of surgery, timing of flatus, time to start oral feeding and complications were recorded. RESULTS SILCR was performed in 24 patients. In 13 patients, SILCR was performed for cancer treatment. There was no need for extra ports, conversion to open surgery and stoma creation was also not necessary. Drain was placed in 4 patients. Overall complication rate was 12.5%. The mean number of lymph nodes in 13 patients who underwent SILCR for tumor was found to be 23 (14-33). The mean operative time and length of hospital stay was 177 minutes (110-363) and 5.35 days (4-11) respectively. Anastomotic leakage was not seen in any of the patients. In one patient, urinoma formation due to ureteral leakage was seen which resulted from thermal injury. CONCLUSION When we compare other series with almost the same number of patients' reported SILS results in the literature, we believe that we could draw conclusions from our data. SILS appears to have comparable results to conventional multiport laparoscopic surgery in the hands of experienced surgeons. It seems advantegous as it can be done with conventional laparoscopic instruments in a "scar-less" manner. Prospective randomized trials are necessary to define the benefits of one procedure over the other.