BACKGROUND Iatrogenic parasitic myomas (PMs), caused by intra-corporeal power morcellation during laparoscopy is gradually increasing. However, the pathogenesis and medical treatment of PMs remain largely unelucidated. METHODS Laparoscopically-induced PM xenografted mouse model was conducted by xenografting human uterine myoma fragments into the abdominal cavity of SCID mice and hormonal manipulation was performed using this mouse model to demonstrate the role of oestrogen in the development of implanted PMs. Immunohistochemistry of oestrogen receptor α (ERα), progesterone receptor (PR), vimentin, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), microvessel density (MVD) and Ki-67 index was performed and compared. RESULTS In the patient with PMs, ERα, PR, angiogenesis and proliferative property expression were upregulated in PM lesions compared to uterine myomas. In the laparoscopically-induced PM mouse model, implanted myomas had more steroid receptor expressions, angiogenesis and proliferative property compared with pre-xenografted or non-implanted myoma. Depletion of oestrogen in the ovariectomized (OVX) mice decreased laparoscopically-induced PM implantations. In comparison, the implantations of PMs were increased with additional E2 supplement. Hormonal manipulation in the PM mouse model, including AI, GnRHa and SERM groups, were compared and AI significantly decreased the implantations, steroid receptor, angiogenesis, cell density, and proliferative index of PMs compared with control group. Furthermore, GnRHa significantly decreased VEGF and MVD expressions compared with control group. CONCLUSIONS These data highlight the crucial role of oestrogen in the development of laparoscopically-induced PMs and suggest that hormone manipulation may be a potential therapeutic agent. TRIAL REGISTRATION This protocol was approved by the Human and Animal Institutional Review Board of Taipei Veterans General Hospital ( VGHIRB No 2014-10-002C on Nov. 17th, 2014; IACUC 2014-119 on Aug. 22nd, 2014).