BACKGROUND Atherosclerosis in the superficial femoral artery is common in patients suffering from peripheral artery disease. Paclitaxel-eluting balloon (PEB) angioplasty, stenting, and directional atherectomy (DA) have provided new options for the treatment of superficial femoral artery disease; however, the comparative efficacy of these interventional strategies remains uncertain. METHODS One hundred and fifty-five patients with symptomatic peripheral artery disease due to de novo superficial femoral artery stenotic or occlusive lesions were randomized to treatment with plain balloon angioplasty (BA) followed by PEB angioplasty and stenting (n=48), BA and stenting (n=52), or DA with distal protection and bailout stenting (n=55). The primary end point of the study was percentage diameter stenosis after 6 months measured by angiography. Other end points included target lesion revascularization, thrombosis, ipsilateral amputation, binary restenosis, and all-cause mortality at 6 and 24 months. RESULTS Baseline and lesion characteristics were comparable in all groups with a mean lesion length of 65.9±46.8 mm and 56% total occlusions. At 6 months angiography, the percent diameter stenosis was significantly lower in patients treated by PEB angioplasty and stenting (34±31%) as compared with BA angioplasty and stenting (56±29%, P=0.009) or DA (55±29%, P=0.007). Similarly, binary restenosis was significantly lower after treatment with PEB and stenting as compared with BA and stenting or DA. Clinical follow-up at 24 months revealed a lower risk for target lesion revascularization after PEB angioplasty and stenting as compared with BA and stenting or DA. We found no difference in terms of target lesion thrombosis and mortality among groups, and no patient underwent amputation. CONCLUSIONS Treatment of de novo superficial femoral artery lesions with PEB angioplasty and stenting is superior to BA angioplasty and stenting or DA in terms of angiographic diameter stenosis at 6 months and target lesion revascularization at 24 months. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00986752.