PURPOSE: The notorious COVID 19 pandemic has caused rapid and drastic changes in cancer care worldwide in 2020. This online survey aims to assess the extent to which the pandemic has affected cancer care in gynecological oncology amongst members of the Association of Gynecological Oncologists of India (AGOI), a registered professional society founded in 1991. METHODS: We developed and administered a cross-sectional, flash survey to members of AGOI in the first week of April 2020. Data were analyzed using Microsoft Office Excel 2016. Results were expressed as percentages of total responses excluding blank or unattended response. Overall theme-specific responses were described as a spectrum of findings, and related inferences were drawn. RESULTS: Among approached practitioners, 90 responded to the survey, more than 80% were practicing consultants, and more than 50% from academic institutions. The results of the study showed that the ongoing pandemic had severely affected gynecological oncology practice and care amongst all respondents. There were modifications in diagnostic pathways, interventions, and follow-ups across all organ sites. There was a near-unanimous opinion on the use of general safety measures to combat the virus and to use complete PPEs in a high-risk situation. There were mixed responses to alternative educational activities, especially using electronic technology and distant learning methods. There was optimism among respondents with regards to the current situation normalizing in 3–6 months. CONCLUSION: This study documents the pandemic affected scenario of gynecological cancer care and perceptions of Gynecological Oncologists in India. A significant effect on all aspects of cancer care was observed. Technological learning methods, both for patient care and educational activities, were being adopted by many respondents. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s40944-020-00421-8) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.