BACKGROUND: High serum levels of certain aromatic microbial metabolites (AMM) are associated with severity and mortality in critically ill patients. Omics-based studies suggest gut dysbiosis and reduced microbiome diversity in critical conditions. However, the landscape of gut microbial metabolites is still to be outlined, not to mention the interplay correlation between the metabolome and gut microbiome in critically ill patients. The aim of this study was to analyze the association between serum and fecal levels of AMM and compare them with the composition of gut microbiota in critically ill patients in the acute and chronic stages. METHODS: In this prospective observational pilot study, we analyzed the temporal dynamics of the gut microbiome and the AMM spectrum across two distinct subgroups—acute critical ill (ACI) patients with nosocomial pneumonia and chronically critically ill (CCI) patients (9 subjects each group)—as well as performed comparison with 23 healthy volunteers. The AMM levels for each patient were measured using GC-MS in simultaneously taken serum and fecal samples (SFS). These parameters were compared with 16S rRNA fecal microbiome profiles. RESULTS: The observed proportions of bacterial taxa suggest a significant gut dysbiosis in the ACI and the CCI patients. Stronger imbalance in microbiome composition and dynamics observed in the ACI patients compared to the CCI ones resonates with a higher severity in the former group. The total levels of AMM in serum samples were higher for the ACI patients than for the CCI patients (3.7 (1.4–6.3) and 1.1 (1.0–1.6) μM, respectively; p = 0.0003). The qualitative composition of the SFS was also altered. We discovered significant associations between gut microbial taxa levels and metabolite concentrations in blood serum as well as in feces in each of the ACI and the CCI patients. CONCLUSIONS: Aromatic microbial metabolite profiles in the gut and the serum are interlinked and reflect a disruption of the gut microbial community in critically ill patients.