Although viruses are widely distributed in fungi, their biological significance to their hosts is still poorly understood. A large number of fungal viruses are associated with latent infections of their hosts. With the exception of the killer-immune character in the yeasts, smuts, and hypovirulence in the chestnut blight fungus, fungal properties that can specifically be related to virus infection are not well defined. Mycoviruses are not known to have natural vectors; they are transmitted in nature intracellularly by hyphal anastomosis and heterokaryosis, and are disseminated via spores. Because fungi have a potential for plasmogamy and cytoplasmic exchange during extended periods of their life cycles and because they produce many types of propagules (sexual and asexual spores), often in great profusion, mycoviruses have them accessible to highly efficient means for transmission and spread. It is no surprise, therefore, that fungal viruses are not known to have an extracellular phase to their life cycles. Although extracellular transmission of a few fungal viruses have been demonstrated, using fungal protoplasts, the lack of conventional methods for experimental transmission of these viruses have been, and remains, an obstacle to understanding their biology. The recent application of molecular biological approaches to the study of mycoviral dsRNAs and the improvements in DNA-mediated fungal transformation systems, have allowed a clearer understanding of the molecular biology of mycoviruses to emerge. Considerable progress has been made in elucidating the genome organization and expression strategies of the yeast L-A virus and the unencapsidated RNA virus associated with hypovirulence in the chestnut blight fungus. These recent advances in the biochemical and molecular characterization of the genomes of fungal viruses and associated satellite dsRNAs, as they relate to the biological properties of these viruses and to their interactions with their hosts are the focus of this chapter.