Aim This narrative review aims to report on the impacts of COVID-19 on the provision of dental education in the 67 dental schools in the United States (US). Having set the scene and current challenges, it aims to suggest some strategies to overcome the issues facing dental schools going forward.Background In the US the Occupational Safety and Health Administration classified dentists in the very high risk category because of the potential for exposure to the virus as a result of aerosol generating procedures (AGP). In the last 20 years there have been two previous outbreaks of coronaviruses (severe acute respiratory syndrome and Middle East respiratory syndrome) which resulted in no long-term changes in the provision of dental education. The recent paper from Wuhan, China described action in the height of the infection but no sustainable actions to deliver dental education going forward.Challenges The challenges identified include: protecting the health of students, faculty and staff; ensuring the continuity and quality of dental education; ensuring confidence in health and safety measures; and keeping up with guidance. There is some variation across the US but most schools have suspended clinical teaching and implemented stay at home policies. Others have implemented social distancing in laboratories including clinical skills. The final challenge is ensuring that students have the teaching, experience and are assessed to ensure the competency of the graduating student.Solutions Technology in teaching and learning offers many opportunities. For didactic teaching distance learning has been implemented. There are 'off the shelf' programmes for teaching and assessment. The development of bespoke content is time consuming and one solution is for schools to share material. Although still requiring social distancing, manikins and haptics offer some opportunities for skills training. The need for excellent information sharing with faculty and students is emphasised.Conclusion Schools should re-evaluate their policies and curricula and incorporate appropriate methods of distance learning permanently into their teaching. Students should have outreach and multi-professional support in order to allow them to assist in the community during public health crises. Finally, gaps have been identified in US dental schools preparedness for pandemics.