Global food security and safety are threatened by a number of fast-occurring changes, even in the absence of natural disasters or terrorist attacks: overpopulation and urbanisation, environmental pollution, climate changes, intensive animal breeding, international trade and travel, emerging water- and food-borne diseases, antimicrobial-resistant bacteria, increasing food costs, complexity of food supply chains, malnutrition and risky food behaviour. Food safety management tools, including food legislation, national and international standards, quality management systems, risk analysis, risk-based inspections and controls, monitoring and alert systems for food contaminants and food-borne diseases, quantitative microbial risk assessment, nutrition and toxicology studies, and elaborate food processing technologies have brought to consumers in developed countries a wide selection of safe foods. Predictive and early warning and communication systems are being developed to increase the ability to “expect the unexpected” and take prevention measures before food hazards become real risks. The production, processing, transportation, storage and/or distribution stages of modern food supply chains remain exposed to various types of biological or chemical contaminants, as evidenced by recent events or crises. The prion/BSE, dioxin, acrylamide, melamine, bisphenol A cases, and the numerous pathogen outbreaks illustrate this exposure. The melamine story and the international traffic of counterfeited foods and drinks show that profit-motivated fraud and adulteration are rising threats, opening potential paths for terrorist actions. Recent food preservation, processing or packaging technologies and trends, in spite or because of their benefits (mild treatment, extended product shelf-life, “fresher” quality, RTE pre-cooked convenience) also bring safety risks at the consumer level: incomplete microbial inactivation, possible non respect of adequate storage conditions and expiration dates, undercooking, and generation of stress-resistant micro-organisms. Innovative technologies, such as the use of nanoparticules in foods or food contact materials, and the development of active, intelligent or sustainable food packaging entail uncertainties and safety concerns. Natural disasters, droughts, floods, conflicts, and poverty often lead to emergency situations requiring large assistance operations with complex logistics and specific meals ready-to-eat or nutrient-supplemented foods. Containerised food processing units that could be deployed and quickly set to operate in ­production-disrupted areas are being developed by the World Food Programme. Other strategies against food insecurity include insurance policies for crop failures and renting of agricultural lands abroad. Citizen perception of food safety risks and the EU consumers’ “right to informed choice” explain why some technologies elicit rejection: ionising irradiation of foods, hormonal and antibiotic treatment of animals, the use of various “­artificial” food additives, genetically modified crops and ingredients, cloned animals. Perceived benefits responding to consumers’ needs (healthier, more nutritive, higher quality, more convenient, lower cost), “naturalness”, respect of the environment and trusted information are the major factors influencing consumers’ acceptance of innovative food technologies and products. Novel foods and technologies are also subject to strict regulatory pre-market safety assessment and authorisation procedures. While necessary for protection against unexpected risks, some of these rules serve as barriers to innovation and trade, and fodder for strong political debates.