BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 crisis has brought many unique challenges to the health care system. Across the United States, social distancing measures have been put in place, including stay-at-home (SAH) orders, to combat the spread of this infection. This has impacted the type and volume of traumatic injuries sustained during this time. Meanwhile, steps have been taken in our health care system to assure that adequate resources are available to maintain a high standard of patient care while recognizing the importance of protecting health care providers. Using comparative data, we aim to describe the trends in traumatic injuries managed by our plastic surgery service and detail the changes in consultation policies made to minimize provider exposure. METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed of all plastic surgery emergencies at our institution during the 3 weeks preceding the issuance of SAH orders in Chicago and the 3 weeks after. The electronic medical record was queried for patient age, type and mechanism of injury, location where injury was sustained, presence of domestic violence, length of inpatient hospital stays, and treatment rendered. The two 3-week periods were then comparatively analyzed to determine differences and trends in these variables and treatment rendered. The 2 periods were then comparatively analyzed to determine differences and trends in these variables. RESULTS: There was a significant decrease in trauma consults since the issuance of SAH (88 pre-SAH vs 62 post-SAH) with a marked decrease in trauma-related hand injuries. There was an increase in the percentage of assault-related injuries including those associated with domestic violence, whereas there was an overall decrease in motor vehicle collisions. There was no notable change in the location where injuries were sustained. Significantly fewer patients were seen by house staff in the emergency room, whereas those requiring surgical intervention were able to receive care without delay. CONCLUSIONS: Stay-at-home orders in Chicago have impacted traumatic injury patterns seen by the Section of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at a level I Trauma Center. Safe and timely care can continue to be provided with thorough communication, vigilance, and guidance from our colleagues.