Reports on the detected positive patients with COVID-19 are as per today the best estimation of a country spread of the pandemic. In order to evaluate the early indicators for true lethality and recovery time, the data where the model is built must be quality checked. Each country sets different procedures and criteria for fatality count due to COVID-19 and the health system is stressed by having insufficient testing, untracked patients and premature discharge. In this paper the dynamics behind such data quality issues are discussed throughout the disease course to support better modeling and decision-making processes in a stressed healthcare system. From 593.291 cases in the sample, and its 7 representative groups, the recovery time and the local CFR are negatively correlated, having the highest fatality rates (21%, Spain) the countries with shorter recovery time (11 days, Spain). Also, CFR can be an indicator of Infection inconsistencies (i.e. South Korea, CFR 1%, Time to recovery 25 days). At the review part, focus is made on the inconsistencies detected in Germany and South Korea datasets as well as the potential misfits on China and Spain. Overall, the Time to Fatality ranges between 4 and 8 days, and the mean is of 6 days (South Korea, 7 days; Japan, 6days). Only Germany and France are detecting earlier than other countries and admit 10 days before fatality occurs. One simple explanation for the local CFR and Recovery time correlation is to define such rate as a measure of the healthcare system overload. Anomalous CFR indexes point to a stressed healthcare system. The higher the overload, the more focus on critical cases and hence the higher local CFR. The COVID-19 intrinsic CFR is unlikely to change by a factor of 10x from countries with similar lifestyle, GDP per capita and health services (i.e. the Mediterranean Basin, Northern Europe, etc.). Because of this fact, early CFR measured before Healthcare system overwhelming (COVID-19 free flow) are considered to be more accurate than the measured CFR while the outbreak is still ongoing, Finally, the synthetic Infection indexes may be a helpful indirect measure of the real population infection rate and also used for data quality audit. Any model built upon inconsistent data will be complex to explain and justify.