During the initial wave of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, many hospitals struggled to forecast bed capacity and the number of mechanical ventilators they needed to have available. Numerous epidemiological models forecast regional or national peak bed and ventilator needs, but these are not suitable for predictions at the hospital level. We developed an analytical model to assist hospitals in determining their census and ventilator requirements for COVID-19 patients during future periods of the pandemic, by using their data. This model is based on (1) projection of future daily admissions using counts from the previous seven days, (2) lengths of stay and duration of mechanical ventilation, and (3) the percentage of inpatients requiring mechanical ventilation. The implementation is done within an Excel (Microsoft, Redmond, WA) workbook without the use of add-ins or macro programming. The model inputs for each currently hospitalized patient with COVID-19 are the duration of hospitalization, whether the patient is currently receiving or has previously received mechanical ventilation, and the duration of the current ventilation episode, if applicable. Data validity and internal consistency are checked within the workbook, and errors are identified. Durations of care (length of hospital stay and duration of mechanical ventilation) are generated by fitting a two-parameter Weibull distribution to the hospital’s historical data from the initial phase of the pandemic (incorporating censoring due to ongoing care), for which we provide source code in the R programming language (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria). Conditional distributions are then calculated using the hospital’s current data. The output of the model is nearly instantaneous, producing an estimate of the census and the number of ventilators required in one, three, and seven days following the date on which the simulation is run. Given that the pandemic is ongoing, and a second surge of cases is expected with the reopening of the economy, having such a tool to predict resource needs for hospital planning purposes has been useful. A major benefit to individual hospitals from such modeling has been to provide reassurance to state and local governments that the hospitals have sufficient resources available to meet anticipated needs for new COVID-19 patients without having to set aside substantially greater numbers of beds or ventilators for such care. Such ongoing activity is important for the economic recovery of hospitals that have been hard-hit economically by the shutdown in elective surgery and other patient care activities. The modeling software is freely available at https://FDshort.com/COVID19, and its parameters can easily be modified by end-users.