BACKGROUND: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) virus is spreading rapidly and there are obvious concerns for the immunocompromised patient population including transplant recipients. Creating awareness and understanding patient concerns will play an important role in protecting this vulnerable group in developing timely and appropriate healthcare interventions. METHODS: A cross-sectional online survey was conducted between 23(rd) March 2020 & 1(st) April 2020 among 154 liver transplant recipients, transplanted between October 2018 and February 2020. An 18-point questionnaire explored their knowledge of COVID-19, awareness of recipient’s high-risk status, interventions to minimize cross-infections and concerns of this patient group regarding the pandemic. RESULTS: There were 112 (73%) respondents, with median age of 53 years (81% males). There was no difference in demographics between those who responded (n=112), to those who did not respond to the survey (n=42). Most of the recipients were aware of the main symptoms of COVID-19, such as fever (92%), breathlessness (86%), dry cough (87%), but less than half were aware of diarrhea (39%) as a symptom. Awareness about spread from asymptomatic individuals was limited (26%). Majority (95%) understood their high-risk status, but worryingly 23% of the respondents felt that there was no risk in visiting the hospital for routine clinic visit and blood tests. Concerns were raised by the recipients mostly regarding the uncertainties of COVID-19 infection and its treatment options, the quality of information on social messaging platforms and lack of access to routine tests/immunosuppression levels due to lockdown/social distancing. CONCLUSIONS: Our liver transplant recipients have a reasonable awareness regarding COVID-19. Problems in accessing the healthcare system during prolonged periods of lockdown was a major concern. It is important for each transplant unit to educate, support and remain accessible to this vulnerable patient cohort as the pandemic continues to progress worldwide.