Background: Corona Virus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is spreading around the world currently, seriously threatening people's health and global security as an international public health emergency. The objective of this study is to summarize China's countermeasures and experience in response to the COVID-19 emergence in order to serve as a warning for the global COVID-19 prevention and control, and further provide some suggestions for global fighting to COVID-19. Methods: Content analysis, expert consultation, and high frequency word analysis were applied in this study. Relevant data and information were collected from official websites, the experience accumulated in China during the fighting to the novel coronavirus, and suggestions from some experts. Results: As of March 29, 2020, China had accumulated 82 419 confirmed diagnoses, and the mortality rate was 4.01%; in the mean time, the global had accumulated 596 042 confirmed diagnoses, and the mortality rate was 4.76%. Although the mortality of COVID-19 was not so high, its harmfulness couldn't be ignored. Ten facts during COVID-19 epidemic in China were summarized in the study, including: the COVID-19 is highly contagious and can be spread through many channels; although elderly people and people with underlying diseases are susceptible, young people can also be victims; isolation is the most effective way to reduce the risk of COVID-19, and secondary disasters induced by COVID-19 should be emphasized in advance. High frequent words of experts' suggestions mainly includes: material, prevention and control, pathogeny, propaganda, education, hygiene, technology, medical care, overall planning, policy, panic, etc. The main concerns of experts are from four aspects: publicity and education, various subjects, medical materials and law construction. Conclusions: COVID-19 is a new infectious disease worldwide, and its infectious source, transmission route, susceptible population, and therapy are not clear. In the face of the COVID-19 epidemic, no country can stand alone to maintain its own safety. People from all over the world should put aside their difference in ideology, religious belief, politics, economy, and culture, and only by global cooperation and globally unified actions, can we successfully overcome COVID-19 in the end.