BACKGROUND Numerous clinical studies suggest that gadobenate dimeglumine is diagnostically superior to other gadolinium chelates for MR imaging applications, including contrast-enhanced MR angiography (CE-MRA). However, confirmatory in-vitro phantom studies have thus far been lacking. PURPOSE To evaluate the difference in signal intensity achieved with the high-relaxivity MR contrast agent gadobenate dimeglumine (MultiHance) relative to that achieved with the standard-relaxivity non-specific agent gadopentetate dimeglumine (Magnevist) at different concentrations using an in-vitro phantom study design. MATERIAL AND METHODS Test tubes with whole human blood were prepared with concentrations of gadobenate dimeglumine or gadopentetate dimeglumine ranging from 0 to 12 mM. A three-dimensional (3D) T1-weighted gradient echo sequence normally used for CE-MRA of the renal arteries was performed at flip angles of 25° and 35°. The signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) was calculated for all concentrations of both contrast agents. Furthermore a Look-Locker sequence was used and quantitative T1 mapping was performed for all the test tubes. The contrast agent concentration in the aorta was simulated using previously published data on T1 in the aorta during the first pass of a contrast agent. The differences between gadobenate dimeglumine and gadopentetate dimeglumine were compared at the simulated concentrations. RESULTS The SNR achieved with gadobenate dimeglumine was consistently greater than that achieved with gadopentetate dimeglumine at all concentrations. An improvement of 15-25% in SNR was obtained when increasing the flip angle from 25° to 35°. The relative improvement in SNR with gadobenate dimeglumine relative to gadopentetate dimeglumine ranged from 25-72% and was markedly greater at lower concentrations with a flip angle of 35°. CONCLUSION Our findings suggest that the relative benefit of gadobenate dimeglumine over gadopentetate dimeglumine for CE-MRA applications is greater at lower concentrations.