The SARS-CoV-2 beta-coronavirus outbreak, which first appeared in Wuhan, China, in late 2019, was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. The first confirmed case of COVID-19 was reported in Hungary on 4 March 2020, and the first patient infected with a new type of coronavirus died on 15 March. At the time of the deceased's death, there was no central, uniform directive clarifying the range of precautions required or providing a clear description of the safe handling of the corpse. Transporting the dead to a pathology department, storing them, possibly dissecting them, and then placing them in their final resting place, how these raise countless questions. The current legislation on communicable diseases and actions on the dead does not provide sufficient information on the performance of tasks after the death of a COVID-19 infected patient. On March 19, the national chief medical officer suspended the autopsies, except for forensic autopsies, but transportation and storage remained a problem. Although on March 21, 2020, the Department of Pathology of the Health Professional College of the Ministry of Human Resources issued a formal procedure, the recommendations contained therein represent a narrower spectrum of literature and need to be supplemented in several places. Unfortunately, data on post-mortem procedures are also under-represented in the international literature, given their importance. Another problem is that in the articles written for the treatment of the victims of crisis situations caused by epidemics, the available algorithms take into account different organizational and resource possibilities in addition to the legal environment different from Hungary, which circumstances make domestic adaptation significantly more difficult. In our article, in addition to the literature review, we formulate suggestions and recommendations for healthcare professionals involved in the treatment of COVID-19 suspected, probable and confirmed patients, as well as potentially affected pathology departments, which increase the safety of providers. * Orv Hetil. 2020; 161 (17): 713-722.