Objective: To determine the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection among asymptomatic COVID-19 facing and non-COVID-19 facing Healthcare Workers (HCWs), with varying job categories across different hospitals. Design: Cross-sectional analysis of a healthcare system surveillance program that included asymptomatic clinical (COVID-19 facing and non-COVID-19 facing), and non-clinical HCWs. A convenience sample of asymptomatic community residents (CR) was also tested. Proportions and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of SARS-CoV-2 positive HCWs are reported. Proportional trend across HCW categories was tested using Chi Square trend test. Logistic regression model-based likelihood estimates of SARS-CoV-2 prevalence among HCWs with varying job functions and across different hospitals are reported as adjusted odds ratios (aOR) and CI. Setting: Healthcare system comprising one tertiary care academic medical center and six large community hospitals across Greater Houston and a community sample. Participants: 2,872 self-reported asymptomatic adult (> 18 years) HCWs and CRs. Exposure: Clinical HCWs in COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 units, non-Clinical HCWs, and CRs. Job categories of Nursing, Providers, Allied Health, Support, and Administration / Research. Seven hospitals in the healthcare system. Main Outcomes: Positive reverse transcriptase polymerized chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for SARS-CoV-2 Results: Among 2,872 asymptomatic HCWs and CRs, 3.9% (CI: 3.2 - 4.7) tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Mean (SD) age was 40.9 (11.7) years and 73% were females. Among COVID-19 facing HCWs 5.4% (CI: 4.5 - 6.5) were positive, whereas 0.6% (CI: 0.2 - 1.7%) of non COVID-19 facing HCWs and none of the non-clinical HCWs or CRs were positive (Ptrend < 0.001). Among COVID-19 facing HCWs, SARS-CoV-2 positivity was similar for all job categories (p = 0.74). However, significant differences in positivity were observed across hospitals. Conclusions and Relevance: Asymptomatic HCWs with COVID-19 patient exposure had a higher rate of SARS-CoV-2 positive testing than those not routinely exposed to COVID-19 patients and those not engaged in patient care. Among HCWs with routine COVID-19 exposure, all job types had relatively similar infection rates. These data can inform hospital surveillance and infection control practices for patient-facing job classifications and suggest that general environmental exposure within hospitals is not a significant source of asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection.