UNLABELLED One of the most commonly performed surgeries in general surgery wards with laparoscopic technique as a method of choice is gall-bladder excision. In addition to -the commonly used conventional laparoscopic cholecystectomy single incision laparoscopic cholecystectomy is getting more and more attention. Despite many works and studies comparing these methods, there is still a shortage of results assessing efficiency of this new surgical technique. The aim of the study was to evaluate cost-effectiveness of this method in Polish financial reality. We have analyzed costs of three different surgical techniques: conventional (multi- incision) laparoscopic cholecystectomy, SILC and 'no-port' SILC. MATERIAL AND METHODS We conducted a retrospective study that compared three groups of patients who underwent treatment with conventional laparoscopic cholecystectomy (n=20), SILC (n=20) and no-port SILC (n=20). These groups were matched by age, sex and BMI. Following parameters were analyzed: complication rate, operative time, operative costs, length of hospital stay, hospitalization costs. The SILC cases were performed with one of the three-trocar SILC ports available on the market. The 'no- port' SILC cases were performed by single skin incision in the umbilicus, insertion of one 10 mm trocar for the operating instrument, another instrument and scope were inserted directly thorough small incisions in the aponeurosis without a dedicated port RESULTS The average operative cost was significantly higher in the SILC group comparing to the conventional laparoscopy group and the no-port SILC group. There was no significant difference in complication rate, operative time, length of hospital stay, or hospitalization costs between the three groups CONCLUSIONS Currently the cost of the dedicated SILC port does not allow a regular use of this procedure in Polish financial reality. According to our experience improved cosmesis is the only advantage of the single incision laparoscopy, therefore we believe that it is reasonable to consider this technique in a a very selected group of patients.