PURPOSE We compared the medium term anatomical and subjective outcome, and graft related complications after sacrocolpopexy for apical vaginal prolapse using xenogenic or polypropylene grafts. MATERIALS AND METHODS We prospectively studied 50 consecutive patients who underwent laparoscopic sacrocolpopexy with porcine grafts of small intestinal submucosa (21) or dermal collagen (29). We compared these patients to 100 consecutive controls in whom polypropylene was used, and underwent surgery before (50) or after (50) the cases. The primary outcome was anatomical cure (stage I or less at any compartment). Secondary outcomes were graft related complications, subjective cure and quality of life evaluated by clinical examination, standardized interview and prolapse specific questionnaire, respectively. RESULTS At study closure 129 (86%) patients were available for functional evaluation and 104 (67%) were available for anatomical evaluation. Mean postoperative followup (+/-33 months) and baseline characteristics except age were comparable. The overall anatomical failure rate was comparable (49% vs 34%, p = 0.053) but failures at the vault (21% vs 3%, p <0.01) and posterior compartment (36% vs 19%, p <0.05) were more frequent in the xenograft group. There were 6 reoperations including secondary laparoscopic sacrocolpopexy (5) and cystocele repair (1), all confined to the xenograft group (p <0.01). Graft related complications were equally frequent (11%) in the xenograft and polypropylene groups. The reoperation rate for graft related complications was not different (xenograft 3% vs controls 11%, p = 0.20). There were no differences in functional outcome and quality of life between xenografts and controls. CONCLUSIONS While overall anatomical failure was comparable, sacrocolpopexy using xenograft was associated with more apical failures and reoperations for prolapse than with polypropylene without differences in functional outcome. The use of xenografts did not decrease the number of graft related complications.