Chronic Immune Dysschwannian/Dysneuronal Polyneuropathy is an autoimmune peripheral-nerve and/or nerve-root disorder known to usually respond to intravenous immunoglobulin-G treatment. Benefit can involve any combination of motor-nerve fibers and large and small sensory-nerve fibers responsible for a progressively crippling, unbalancing, discomforting or painful disorder. "Diabetic neuropathy" is commonly considered untreatable. However, 81% of my 48 recently-summarized type-2 diabetes patients with polyneuropathy, adequately-treated with intravenous immunoglobulin-G, off-label, were relieved, sometimes completely, of various motor and sensory symptoms, including pain, thereby resembling Chronic Immune Dysschwannian/Dysneuronal Polyneuropathy. Spinal fluid protein in them is often elevated, higher values seeming to auger a better intravenous immunoglobulin-G response. Continuing the improvement requires continuing the intravenous immunoglobulin-G treatment, indicating both intravenous immunoglobulin-G responsiveness and dependency. The intravenous immunoglobulin-G responsive type-2 diabetes polyneuropathy usually is dysschwannian, sometimes mainly dysneuronal intravenous immunoglobulin-G, the most beneficial and safest treatment, is costly, but if intravenous immunoglobulin-G-treatability of a dysimmune component of type-2 diabetes neuropathy is overlooked, dismissed or rejected, as commonly happens, other costs are high regarding the patient's worsening morbidity and disability, and resultant need for increased medical care. A novel intravenous immunoglobulin-G regimen effective for fragile patients is Two Non-Consecutive-Days Every Week, using 0.4 gm/kg body wt/day. Possible molecular mechanisms of intravenous immunoglobulin-G benefit are discussed. I propose that a) there is a higher incidence of Chronic Immune Dysschwannian/Dysneuronal Polyneuropathy-like neuropathy in type-2 diabetes patients and in patients with a strong family history of type-2 diabetes, and b) the intravenous immunoglobulin-G-treatable neuropathy in type-2 diabetes can be brought on by the genetico-diabetoid-2 state. The genetic-metabolic milieu (but not necessarily glucose dysmetabolism per se.) of type-2 diabetes putatively predisposes to the presumably-dysimmune intravenous immunoglobulin-G-responsive polyneuropathy. In some of our patients, especially ones having a strong type-2 diabetes genetic background, the intravenous immunoglobulin-G-responsive neuropathy preceded the diagnosis of type-2 diabetes by 5-10 years. Accordingly, Chronic Immune Dysschwannian/Dysneuronal Polyneuropathy patients having a strong type-2 diabetes genetic background are designated "genetico-diabetoid-2 neuropathy" prior to their manifesting type-2 diabetes. Intravenous immunoglobulin-G is herein suggested as a treatment for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, a recent, and feared-repetitive, pandemic with many fatalities caused by a highly-contagious mutant coronavirus, for which there is no definitive treatment. Intravenous immunoglobulin-G might: a) combat a dysimmune component of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, including the reactive cytokine-chemokine storm against respiratory tissues; b) contain some antibodies effective against the coronavirus non-specific components of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome; c) block host-cell receptors for the virus; and d) counteract secondary infections.