BACKGROUND Hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery is commonly used in colorectal surgery and provides benefit in complex cases. OBJECTIVE This study examined the minimally invasive surgical trends, patient characteristics, and operative variables unique to patients undergoing hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery. DESIGN This was a retrospective medical chart review. SETTINGS The study was conducted in a tertiary care medical center. PATIENTS Patients included in the study were those who underwent pure laparoscopic colectomies, hand-assisted laparoscopic colectomies, and traditional open surgery for elective treatment of diverticular disease, colorectal cancer, IBD, and benign polyp disease. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Primary outcomes included patient characteristics and operative variables unique to patients undergoing hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery and documentation of operative technique trends within an experienced colorectal group. RESULTS Diverticular disease characteristics specific to hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery included the presence of dense inflammatory adhesions (p < 0.0001), diverticular fistulas (p < 0.0001), and unresolved phlegmon (p = 0.0003). Characteristics specific for colorectal cancer included intraoperative tumor bulk (p < 0.0001) and the inability to achieve appropriate surgical resection margins (p < 0.001). Similarly, variables identified for benign polyp disease included adhesions (p < 0.0001) and the ability to gain adequate exposure (p < 0.0001). Limited use of hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery was observed in patients with IBD. LIMITATIONS This was a retrospective, observational study from a single center. CONCLUSIONS Conversion to hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery provides benefit in surgical scenarios where dense inflammatory adhesions, diverticular fistulas, and intra-abdominal postdiverticulitis phlegmon are present. In addition, benefit is observed in patients with colorectal cancer where laparoscopic dissection of bulky tumor proves to be difficult and where the technical ability to obtain margins using pure laparoscopy is compromised. Although our practice has changed to favor pure laparoscopy, hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery continues to play an important role in complex colorectal cases that otherwise would require open surgery (see video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/DCR/A146).