Background We investigated how the anxiety associated with COVID 19 impacts the severity of tinnitus and the outcomes of tinnitus therapy. Methods and Findings A retrospective research design was used to compare the clinical characteristics of tinnitus between patients from March to April 2020 under pandemic pressure and those from the matching period in 2019. Tinnitus severity was evaluated using the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI) questionnaire and the minimum masking level (MML) measure while anxiety was quantified using the Zung Self-rating Anxiety Scale (SAS). The assessments were repeated after a 2-month interval, in which sound therapy was applied to a subgroup of patients. In all, 94 and 70 cases were reported in the 2020 and 2019 groups, respectively. The effects of the pandemic on emotional status were evident from a higher incidence of anxiety and much higher SAS scores in the 2020 group. There was also an increase in the THI scores in the 2020 group, but the between-year difference was smaller than that of the SAS score. Moreover, there was no between-year difference in MML or the treatment effect, as measured via both THI and MML. Furthermore, the reduction in SAS score in the second assessment was significantly smaller in the 2020 group. However, a positive correlation between the initial SAS score and the improvement was seen within the 2020 group. Conclusions Anxiety increased greatly in tinnitus subjects due to the COVID 19 pandemic. However, this was not associated with an increase in tinnitus severity in 2020. Instead, there was no between-year difference in the THI score or MML or in the improvement of either measure after treatment. The smaller improvement in SAS score and the positive correlation with the initial SAS score in the 2020 group suggests that the SAS score change in this group might largely be due to the natural relief of pressure as the pandemic decelerated in China. Therefore, the anxiety change induced by the COVID 19 pandemic is not likely to have a strong impact on tinnitus.