BACKGROUND The control of diabetes mellitus (DM) should help reduce the incidence of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI). Self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) concentration is usually undertaken at fixed time-points. Therefore, the extent of postoperative blood glucose fluctuation might be underestimated. To provide a more comprehensive assessment, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) is beginning to be used. However, no previous studies have evaluated blood glucose concentrations using CGM following orthopedic surgery. Therefore, the differences between the maximum blood glucose concentrations measured using SMBG and CGM, and the mean amplitude of the glycemic fluctuation in patients with frank diabetes mellitus (DM) or pre-diabetes were evaluated. Blood glucose was measured in 20 patients who had undergone total hip or total knee arthroplasty (12 patients with DM and eight with pre-diabetes). Patients were fitted with a CGM device in the operating room, which was worn for 6 days postoperatively, and used to evaluate blood glucose concentration continuously. SMBG was performed simultaneously for the same period. RESULTS The mean difference between the maximum blood glucose concentrations measured using SMBG and CGM was 25.0 ± 20.3 mg/dl (range, - 17 to 81 mg/dl), with the concentrations measured using CGM tending to be higher than those measured using SMBG (P = 0.04). Blood glucose concentrations measured using CGM tended to be higher than those measured using SMBG until postoperative day 2, and to decrease gradually after postoperative day 4. There were no significant differences in the standard deviation of the blood glucose concentrations between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS Blood glucose concentrations > 200 mg/dl and larger fluctuations were more frequently recorded using CGM than SMBG, especially until postoperative day 2. Thus, CGM is more useful for the identification of high blood glucose concentrations and larger fluctuations. However, this information was not provided in real time.