Purpose/Objective(s): The COVID-19 pandemic is impacting all aspects of life and changing the practice of medicine. Multiple recommendations exist on how radiation oncology practices should deal with this crisis, but little information is available on what actually happens when the COVID-19 surge arrives. New York City experienced the first surge of COVID-19 in the United States and is now the epicenter of the global pandemic. This study reviews the impact of COVID-19 on a hospital system in New York on aspects of medicine, nursing, radiation therapy, and administration.Materials/Methods: A retrospective review was conducted of the department of radiation oncology in a single health system in New York from 3/1/20 to 4/1/20. Collaboration was obtained from physicians, nursing, radiation therapy, and administration to recall their policies and impact on specific duties. A timeline was reconstructed to chronicle significant events. Numbers were obtained for patients on treatment, treatments breaks, and COVID-19 infections amongst staff and patients. Results: The COVID-19 surge had a tremendous impact on the health system including cessation of all of surgeries, including oncologic surgery, as well as transfer of all inpatient oncology services to makeshift outpatient facilities. Radiation Oncology made aggressive efforts to reduce patients on treatment to protect patients and staff as well reallocate staff and space for more acute clinical needs. Patients on-beam were reduced by 27% from 172 to 125 by 4/1/20. Almost all visits were changed to telemedicine within 2 weeks. Infection rates and quarantine were quite low amongst staff and patients. The majority of residents were deployed into COVID-19 clinical settings. Conclusion: While "planning for the worst", our health system was able to make necessary changes to still function at a reduced capacity. Our experience will give other departments a concrete experience to help them make their own policies and manage expectations.