On the 20th of March 2020, triggered by the public health emergency declared, the Health Authorities in Madrid reported a legal instruction (Orden 371/2020) indicating the organization of a provisional hospital to admit patients with COVID-19 at the Trade Fair Institution (IFEMA). Several pharmacists working in the Pharmacy and Medical Devices Department of the Madrid Regional Health Service were called to manage the Pharmacy Department of the abovementioned hospital. Required permissions to set up a PD were here authorized urgently. Tackling human and material resources, and computer systems for drug purchase and electronic prescription, were some of the initial issues that hindered the pharmaceutical provision required for patients from the very day one. Once the purchase was assured, mainly by direct purchase from suppliers, drug dispensing up to 1,250 hospitalized patients (25 nursing units) and 8 ICU patients was taken on. Dispensing was carried out through either drug stocks in the nursing units or individual patient dispensing for certain drugs. Moreover, safety issues related to prescription were considered, and as the electronic prescription was implemented we attained 100% prescriptions review and validation. The constitution of a multidisciplinary Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee let agree to a pharmacotherapy guide, pres cription protocols, therapeutic equivalences, interactions, and drug dispensing circuits. The Pharmacy Department strategy was to ensure a very quick response to basic tasks keeping the aim to offer a pharmaceutical care of the highest quality whenever possible. Working under a health emergency situation, with many uncertainties and continuous pressure was a plight. However, the spirit of collaboration in and out of the Pharmacy Department was aligned with the whole hospital motivation to offer the highest quality of healthcare. These were possibly the keys to allow caring for almost 4,000 patients during the 42 days that the hospital lasted.