BACKGROUND: Whether Borna disease virus (BDV-1) is a human pathogen remained controversial until recent encephalitis cases showed BDV-1 infection could even be deadly. This called to mind previous evidence for an infectious contribution of BDV-1 to mental disorders. Pilot open trials suggested that BDV-1 infected depressed patients benefitted from antiviral therapy with a licensed drug (amantadine) which also tested sensitive in vitro. Here, we designed a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial (RCT) which cross-linked depression and BDV-1 infection, addressing both the antidepressant and antiviral efficacy of amantadine. METHODS: The interventional phase II RCT (two 7-weeks-treatment periods and a 12-months follow-up) at the Hannover Medical School (MHH), Germany, assigned currently depressed BDV-1 infected patients with either major depression (MD; N = 23) or bipolar disorder (BD; N = 13) to amantadine sulphate (PK-Merz®; twice 100 mg orally daily) or placebo treatment, and contrariwise, respectively. Clinical changes were assessed every 2–3 weeks by the 21-item Hamilton rating scale for depression (HAMD) (total, single, and combined scores). BDV-1 activity was determined accordingly in blood plasma by enzyme immune assays for antigens (PAG), antibodies (AB) and circulating immune complexes (CIC). RESULTS: Primary outcomes (≥25% HAMD reduction, week 7) were 81.3% amantadine vs. 35.3% placebo responder (p = 0.003), a large clinical effect size (ES; Cohen’s d) of 1.046, and excellent drug tolerance. Amantadine was safe reducing suicidal behaviour in the first 2 weeks. Pre-treatment maximum infection levels were predictive of clinical improvement (AB, p = 0.001; PAG, p = 0.026; HAMD week 7). Respective PAG and CIC levels correlated with AB reduction (p = 0,001 and p = 0.034, respectively). Follow-up benefits (12 months) correlated with dropped cumulative infection measures over time (p < 0.001). In vitro, amantadine concentrations as low as 2.4–10 ng/mL (50% infection-inhibitory dose) prevented infection with human BDV Hu-H1, while closely related memantine failed up to 100,000-fold higher concentration (200 μg/mL). CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate profound antidepressant efficacy of safe oral amantadine treatment, paralleling antiviral effects at various infection levels. This not only supports the paradigm of a link of BDV-1 infection and depression. It provides a novel possibly practice-changing low cost mental health care perspective for depressed BDV-1-infected patients addressing global needs. TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial was retrospectively registered in the German Clinical Trials Registry on 04th of March 2015. The trial ID is DRKS00007649; https://www.drks.de/drks_web/setLocale_EN.do