PURPOSE Approximately 1.5% of the world's population (∼100 million people) need a prosthesis/orthosis. The objective of the study was to establish an overview of the literature that has examined prosthetic and orthotic interventions with a view to inform policy development. METHODS Fourteen databases were searched from 1995-2015. Studies reporting primary research on the effectiveness or cost-effectiveness of prosthetic and orthotic interventions were examined. Metadata and information on study characteristics were extracted from the included studies. RESULTS The searches resulted in a total of 28,958 articles, a focus on studies with the words "randomized" OR "randomized" OR "cost" OR "economic" in their citation reduced this total to 2644. Research has predominantly been conducted in Australia, Canada, Germany, Netherlands, UK and USA. A total of 346 randomized controlled trials were identified, with only four randomized controlled trials examining prosthetic interventions. The majority of research examined lower limb orthoses in the adult population and used a wide range of outcome measures. CONCLUSIONS While various international organizations have highlighted the value of providing prosthetic and orthotic services, both to the user and society as a whole, the availability of scientific research to inform policy is limited. Future structured evaluation of prosthetic and orthotic interventions/services is warranted to inform future policy developments. Implications for rehabilitation Research into prosthetic and orthotic interventions has grown substantially in the last 20 years, with most of this research conducted in a small number of countries and focusing on the use of lower limb orthotics in adult populations. Research to date has utilized an extensive range of outcome measures, the development of agreed standardized sets of outcomes would allow comparison and combination of results in future research. This study highlights the need for further research in this area, especially studies which examine the cost-effectiveness of prosthetic and orthotic provision.