The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a highly transmittable and pathogenic viral infection caused by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which emerges in December 2019 in Wuhan, China and spreads around the world at the beginning of 2020. The World Health Organization declares the outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on the 30th of January, and a pandemic on the 11th of March. On the 4th of March, the Italian government orders the full closure of all schools and universities nationwide. The aim of this study is to investigate the knowledge, practice and attitudes (KAP) of secondary school at the time of COVID-19 pandemic in Italy. In this cross-sectional, web-based survey, conducted among the high school student population with age ranging from 14 to 19 years old, a questionnaire with 19 items regarding the KAP toward COVID-19 is asked. Study participants are recruited from several secondary schools of different areas. Frequencies and histograms are computed for descriptive purposes. Statistical analysis is computed with Chi square test, utilized to depict relevant difference between geender. Among a total of 2380 students who answers the questionnaire, 40.7% are male and 59.3% are female. Level of knowledge about generical characteristics of COVID-19 is quite similar among gender. Students present a good level of knowledge about the clinical presentation of the disease, the basic hygiene principles, the modes of transmission and the method of protection against virus transmission. The knowledge about number of this pandemia and easy scientific correlation with COVID-19 is quite confused. The most frequently reported source of knowledge about COVID-19 is television, whereas the less is the school. Our findings suggest that student population shows appropriate practice, and positive attitude towards COVID-19 at the time of its outbreak. More emphasis should be placed on education of the student partecipants about biological meaning of this infection and relative preventive or future measures.