OBJECTIVE Various different surgical methods are used for obesity surgery. Among them, laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) and laparoscopic gastric plication (LGP) have been both successfully performed in recent years. In this study, we compared the treatment results of patients who underwent LGP, a method that was introduced later consisting of plication of gastric greater curvature to achieve volume reduction, with results of patients who underwent LSG. MATERIAL AND METHODS We analyzed data on morbid obese patients who underwent bariatric surgery with either LSG or LPG in Konya Beyhekim Hospital between 2009 and 2012. Demographic features including age and sex, preoperative blood biochemistry, body mass index (BMI) before and after operation, duration of hospital stay, morbidity, mortality and complications were analyzed. RESULTS Fifty-five patients who were operated for obesity between 2009 and 2012 were included in the study. 29 patients underwent LGP, and 26 patients LSG. The BMI in the LGP and LSG groups was 41.4±3 kg/m(2) and 42.0±3.1 kg/m(2), respectively. There was no significant difference between two groups in terms of BMI. Two groups were also similar in terms of age and gender. In the LGP group, one patient had postoperative necrosis of the suture line. One patient in the LSG group was re-operated due to bleeding. Another patient in this group had leakage at the suture line. Postoperative BMI assessment of groups revealed significantly lower BMI levels in the LSG group. Length of hospital stay was significantly shorter in the LGP group. There was no significant difference in complication rates between two groups. CONCLUSION In this study, we obtained similar results in patients who were treated with LGP or LSG. Moreover, LSG was more efficient in decreasing BMI in morbid obesity surgery when compared to LGP. However, duration of hospital stay was significantly shorter in LGP group. We concluded that both methods could be effectively and safely used in the surgical management of morbid obesity.