The Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the University Hospital of Fuenlabrada was forced to critically increase its capacity in the COVID-19 pandemic. The objective of this work is to describe the activities promoted by the pharmacist in the care of the critically ill patient in this context. A new organizational structure was designed, analyzing the tasks necessary to make the processes profitable. Two pharmacists joined the critical patient care to help the pharmacist who was already integrated in the ICU team. The development of the operational structure was carried out on three levels. The healthcare activity highlights the daily participation of pharmacists in the two clinical sessions in which the ICU teams evaluated all cases and made decisions. This in turn facilitated the pharmaceutical validation that was carried out in the critical units themselves. In addition, one of the pharmacists created the Immuno-COVID Committee, in which they participated together with different specialists for therapeutic decision-making in the most complex cases. On the other hand, the availability of human and material resources allowed the implantation of centralized elaboration in the Pharmacy Service of many intravenous mixtures, including antibiotics elastomers Pumps for continuous infusion, and non-sterile elaborations. In logistics management, in addition to the acquisition of COVID- 19 therapies, the reconciliation with nursing activity stands out. The physical presence of the pharmacist favored the detection of needs, the availability in time of medications in the unit, including sterile and non-sterile preparations, and coordination with the central pharmacy. In knowledge management, the participation of the pharmacist in the working group for the development of the hospital management protocol COVID-19 stands out. The daily presence in the unit and the joint work with the entire multidisciplinary team demonstrate the value that the pharmacist can bring. In addition to efficient resource management, support for clinical decision-making and improvement actions, it provides the climate of inter-professional trust necessary to respond to the complexity of the critical patient and promote joint projects.