RATIONALE Endotracheal intubation is an essential step for airway management during general anesthesia. When surgeons carry out thoracic surgery such as pneumonectomy, they usually request lung isolation to secure a clear surgical view. A double lumen endotracheal tube is used for lung isolation in routine thoracic surgeries. PATIENT CONCERNS A 56-year-old man was previously diagnosed with left Aspergilloma, a tuberculosis destroyed lung, and diabetes mellitus. According to his chest x-ray and chest computed tomography, his left lung was nearly collapsed, and the result of a pulmonary function test was severely restricted. The patient's diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide was 63% and predicted postoperative forced expiratory volume in 1 second was 23.5% DIAGNOSES:: Due to his previous history, radiologic findings and laboratory test results, he was diagnosed with left Aspergilloma and tuberculosis destroyed lung. INTERVENTIONS Due to recurrence of Aspergilloma in his left lung, the patient was scheduled for a left pneumonectomy. Since the patient's partial oxygen concentration was adequate despite his left lung being nearly totally collapsed, we thought that we would be capable of performing the pneumonectomy using a single lumen tube (SLT). For a better surgical view, we planned lung isolation via insertion of a SLT deep into the bronchus. OUTCOMES During pneumonectomy, after tracheal suction was performed, we tried a lung recruitment maneuver. Suddenly end-tidal carbon dioxide did not show on the monitor. The patient's blood pressure dropped and heart rate was decreasing. We thought that cardiopulmonary resuscitation was needed and an approximately 2 cm sized hematoma was removed from the endotracheal tube after vigorous suctioning. After getting rid of the hematoma, we changed the single tube to a double lumen tube (DLT). LESSONS This case led us to the conclusion that a DLT should be used for safety when carrying out thoracic surgery. We report a rare case of an airway obstruction using a SLT during pneumonectomy.