BACKGROUND: Recent studies have shown a 13-fold increase of oropharyngeal cancer in the presence of HPV, while α-HPV detection seems to be rare in oral cavity in comparison to anal or cervical district, many novel β and γ types have been isolated in this anatomical site suggesting a wide tropism range. Currently, there are no guidelines recommending HPV oral cavity screening as a mandatory test, and it remains unknown which HPV types should be included in HPV screening programs. Our goal was to assess HPV prevalence in oropharyngeal, anal, and cervical swabs using different sets of primers,which are able to amplify α, β, γ HPV types. METHODS: We analysed the presence of HPV DNA in oropharyngeal (n = 124), anal (n = 186), cervical specimens (n = 43) from HIV positive and negative patients using FAP59/64 and MY09/11 primers. All untyped strains were genetically characterized through PCR amplification and direct sequencing of partial L1 region, and the resulting sequences were classified through phylogenetic analysis. RESULTS: HPV prevalence was 20.9% in 124 oropharyngeal swab samples, including infections with multiple HPV types (5.6%). HPV prevalence in this anatomical site was significantly associated with serostatus: 63.3%in HIV positive and 36.3% in HIV negative patients (p < 0.05). Unclassified types were detected in 6 specimens. In our analysis, we did not observe any difference in HPV (α, β, γ) prevalence between men and women. Overall, β species were the most frequently detected 69.7%. When using anal swabs, for HIV positive patients, β genus prevalence was 1% and γ genus was 3.7% including 6 unclassified types. In cervical samples from 43 HIV positive women (18 HPV negative and 25 positive by MY09/11 PCR), only one sample was positivite for β(1) species (2.4%) using FAP primers. Six of the untyped strains clustered with sequences from species 7, 9, 10, 8,12 of γ genus. Four sequences remained unclassified. Finally, β and γ HPV prevalence was significantly lower than their respective HPV prevalence as identified by the Luminex system in all anatomical sites that were analyzed in previous studies. CONCLUSION: This study provides new information about viral isolates present in oropharyngeal site and it will contribute to improve the monitoring of HPV infection. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1186/s12985-019-1132-x) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.