BACKGROUND: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a novel viral illness that has rapidly spread worldwide. While the disease primarily presents as a respiratory illness, gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhea have been reported in up to a third of confirmed cases, and patients may have mild symptoms that do not prompt medical attention. Internet-based infodemiology approaches offer an approach to studying symptoms at a population level, even in patients who do not seek medical care. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine if a correlation exists between internet searches for gastrointestinal symptoms and confirmed case count of COVID-19 in the United States. METHODS: The search terms chosen for analysis in this study include common gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. Furthermore, fever and cough were used as positive controls and constipation as a negative control. Daily query shares for the selected symptoms were obtained from Google Trends between October 1, 2019 and June 15, 2020 for all U.S. states. These shares were divided into two time periods: pre-COVID-19 (prior to March 1) and post-COVID-19 (March 1-June 15). Confirmed COVID-19 case number was obtained from the Johns Hopkins University Center for Systems Science and Engineering data repository. Moving averages of the daily query shares (normalized to baseline pre-COVID-19) were then analyzed against the confirmed disease case count and daily new cases to establish a temporal relationship. RESULTS: While the relative search query share of many symptoms including nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and constipation remained near or below baseline throughout the time period studied, there was a notable increase in searches for the positive controls, fever and cough, as well as for diarrhea. This increase in daily search queries for fever, cough, and diarrhea preceded the rapid rise in case number by about 10-14 days. Search volume for these terms began declining after mid-March despite continued rise in cumulative cases and daily new case count. CONCLUSIONS: Google searches for symptoms may precede the actual rise in cases and hospitalizations during pandemics. During the current COVID-19 pandemic, this study demonstrates that internet search queries for fever, cough, and diarrhea increase prior to confirmed case count by available testing during the early weeks of the pandemic in the U.S. While search volume eventually decreased significantly as cases continued to rise, internet query search data may still be a useful tool at a population level to identify areas of active disease transmission at the cusp of new outbreaks.