BACKGROUND: Young women in sub-Saharan Africa remain at the epicentre of the HIV epidemic, with surveillance data indicating persistent high levels of HIV incidence. In South Africa, adolescent girls and young women (AGYW) account for a quarter of all new HIV infections. Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored and Safe (DREAMS) is a strategy introduced by the United States President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) aimed at reducing HIV incidence among AGYW in 10 countries in sub-Saharan Africa by 25% in the programme’s first year, and by 40% in the second year. This study will assess the change in HIV incidence and reduction in risk associated behaviours that can be attributed to the DREAMS initiative in South Africa, using a population-based cross-sectional survey. METHODS: Data will be collected from a household-based representative sample of AGYW (between the ages 12–24 years) in four high prevalence districts (more than 10% of the population have HIV in these districts) in South Africa in which DREAMS has been implemented. A stratified cluster-based sampling approach will be used to select eligible participants for a cross-sectional survey with 18,500, to be conducted over 2017/2018. A questionnaire will be administered containing questions on sexual risk behaviour, selected academic and developmental milestones, prevalence of gender based violence, whilst examining exposure to DREAMS programmes. Biological samples, including two micro-containers of blood and self-collected vulvovaginal swab samples, are collected in each survey to test for HIV infection, HIV incidence, sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and pregnancy. This study will measure trends in population level HIV incidence using the Limiting antigen (LAg) Avidity Enzyme Immuno-Assay (EIA) and monitor changes in HIV incidence. DISCUSSION: Ending the HIV/AIDS pandemic by 2030 requires the continual monitoring and evaluation of prevention programmes, with the aim of optimising efforts and ensuring the achievement of epidemic control. This study will determine the impact DREAMS interventions have had on HIV incidence among AGYW in a ‘real world, non-trial setting’.