Virus cause multiple outbreaks, for which comprehensive tailored therapeutic strategies are still missing. Virus and host cell dynamics are strictly connected, and convey in virion assembly to ensure virus spread in the body. Study of the systemic behavior of virus-host interaction at the single-cell level is a scientific challenge, considering the difficulties of using experimental approaches and the limited knowledge of the behavior of emerging novel virus as a collectivity. This work focuses on positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses, like human coronaviruses, in their virus-individual host interaction, studying the changes induced in the host cell bioenergetics. A systems-thinking representation, based on stock-flow diagramming of virus-host interaction at the cellular level, is used here for the first time to simulate the system energy dynamics. We found that reducing the energy flow which fuels virion assembly is the most affordable strategy to limit the virus spread, but its efficacy is mitigated by the contemporary inhibition of other flows relevant for the system. Summary Positive-single-strand ribonucleic acid ((+)ssRNA) viruses can cause multiple outbreaks, for which comprehensive tailored therapeutic strategies are still missing. Virus and host cell dynamics are strictly connected, generating a complex dynamics that conveys in virion assembly to ensure virus spread in the body. This work focuses on (+)ssRNA viruses in their virus-individual host interaction, studying the changes induced in the host cell bioenergetics. A systems-thinking representation, based on stock-flow diagramming of virus-host interaction at the cellular level, is used here for the first time to simulate the energy dynamics of the system. By means of a computational simulator based on the systemic diagramming, we identifid host protein recycling and folded-protein synthesis as possible new leverage points. These also address different strategies depending on time setting of the therapeutic procedures. Reducing the energy flow which fuels virion assembly is addressed as the most affordable strategy to limit the virus spread, but its efficacy is mitigated by the contemporary inhibition of other flows relevant for the system. Counterintuitively, targeting RNA replication or virion budding does not give rise to relevant systemic effects, and can possibly contribute to further virus spread. The tested combinations of multiple systemic targets are less efficient in minimizing the stock of virions than targeting only the virion assembly process, due to the systemic configuration and its evolution overtime. Viral load and early addressing (in the first two days from infection) of leverage points are the most effective strategies on stock dynamics to minimize virion assembly and preserve host-cell bioenergetics. As a whole, our work points out the need for a systemic approach to design effective therapeutic strategies that should take in account the dynamic evolution of the system.