BACKGROUND: We analyzed the results of a 3-year surveillance study on the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of healthcare associated-infections (HAIs) in elderly inpatients in a large tertiary hospital in China. METHODS: Real-time surveillance was performed from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017. All HAIs were identified by infection control practitioners and doctors. Inpatient data were collected with an automatic surveillance system. RESULTS: A total of 134,637 inpatients including 60,332 (44.8%) elderly ≥60 years were included. The overall incidence of HAI was 2.0%. The incidence of HAI in elderly patients was significantly higher than that in non-elderly patients (2.6% vs. 1.5%, χ(2) = 202.421, P < 0.01) and increased with age. The top five sites of HAIs in the elderly were the lower respiratory tract, urinary tract, blood stream, antibiotic-associated diarrhea, and surgical site. The five most common pathogens detected in elderly HAI patients were Candida albicans, Klebsiella pneumonia, Acinetobacter baumannii, Escherichia coli, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The incidence of ventilator-associated pneumonia in the elderly was lower than in the non-elderly, catheter-associated urinary tract infections were more common in elderly patients, and the rate of central line-associated bloodstream infection was similar between groups. The numbers of male patients and patients with comorbidities and special medical procedures (e.g., intensive care unit admission, cerebrovascular disease, brain neoplasms, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, malignant tumor, malignant hematonosis, and osteoarthropathy) were significantly higher in the elderly group, but the number of patients who underwent surgery was lower. CONCLUSION: We observed a significantly higher overall incidence of HAI in elderly inpatients ≥60 compared to non-elderly inpatients < 60 years, but the trend was different for device-associated HAIs, which was attributed to the higher rates of comorbidities and special medical procedures in the elderly group. The main HAI sites in elderly inpatients were the lower respiratory tract, urinary tract, and bloodstream, and the main pathogens were gram-negative bacilli and Candida albicans.