OBJECTIVE: In response to the American Academy of Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery’s recommendations to limit patient care activities in the times of SARS-CoV-2, many elective surgeries have been canceled without patient clinics transitioning to virtual visits. With regulations for telemedicine loosened, new possibilities for the practice of otolaryngology have opened. To address the uncertain duration of this pandemic, a review was conducted of current literature on use of telemedicine services in the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and in previous national emergencies to reveal the role telemedicine can play for otolaryngology practices. DATA SOURCES: Pubmed articles with an independent search query were utilized. METHODS: Literature review performed by one author searched for all published English-language literature on telehealth in the SARS-CoV-2 era. Articles were considered for discussion if they provided relevant developments for telemedicine in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. RESULTS: Telemedicine can be up-scaled in the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic where exposure containment is of the utmost priority. With patient interaction possible through virtual communication, telemedicine allows continued patient care while minimizing the risk of viral spread. In the realm of otolaryngology, telemedicine has been used in the past during disasters with other studies demonstrating high diagnostic concordance with inpatient visits. Many institutions have recognized the potential for such care as they begin utilize both virtual visits and in-person care during this pandemic. CONCLUSION: To limit the spread of SARS-CoV-2, we support the AAO-HNS recommendation for the adoption of novel ways to employ telemedicine in this era. Many emergency departments and health care systems have the infrastructure necessary for synchronous video telemedicine visits that can be leveraged to provide quality care with patients. With the continued need to socially distance, telemedicine can protect both physicians and patients from unnecessary exposure to the virus.