PURPOSE Single-port laparoscopic surgery has evolved from an effort to minimize tissue trauma, limit morbidity, and maximize cosmesis. Limited data exist comparing single-port with conventional laparoscopy for right colectomy. Our aim is to compare single-port with laparoscopic colectomy with regard to safety and feasibility. We assert that this approach can be adopted in a safe and efficacious manner while using standard laparoscopic instrumentation. METHODS This is a retrospective analysis of prospectively gathered data regarding 16 single-port and 27 conventional laparoscopic right hemicolectomies performed by a single surgeon between January 2008 and February 2009. Demographics, operative outcomes, and morbidity were included and analyzed using either Student t test or Fisher exact probability test. RESULTS Single-port and conventional laparoscopic groups were similar with regard to age, gender, body mass index, prior abdominal surgery, and co-morbidity. Seventy-five percent and 70% of the operations were performed for malignancy in the single-port and the conventional laparoscopy group, respectively (P = .69). Operative duration was 106 minutes in the single-port group vs 100 minutes in the conventional group (P = .64). Blood loss was 54 mL and 90 mL, respectively (P = .07). No conversions or additions of ports occurred. Hospital stay was 5.3 days in the single-port group vs 6 days in the conventional group (P = .53). Margins were negative in both groups. Mean lymph node number was 18 and 16 nodes (P = .92). There was one death in the conventional group (P = .44). Morbidity including wound infection was 18.8% and 14.9%, respectively (P = .73). CONCLUSIONS These findings support single-port right colectomy as a safe and efficacious approach to right colon resections in patients eligible for laparoscopy with minimal additional equipment or learning curve for experienced laparoscopic colorectal surgeons. The single port was undertaken without an increase in morbidity or mortality. There was no increase in operative time with use of the single-port approach. Finally, adequate lymph node harvest and margin clearance was maintained.