BACKGROUND: More than a million and a half people are infected worldwide with more than 90.000 casualties. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is radically altering both socio-economic and health care scenarios. METHODS: On April 4, 2020, at 13.30 CET, a webinar was broadcasted, organized by Global Neuro and supported by WFNS. Expert neurosurgeons from 6 different countries (China, Italy, South Korea, USA, Colombia and United Kingdom) reported on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on their health care systems and neurosurgical activity. RESULTS: The first part focused on the epidemiology until that date. The USA were the most affected State with 450.000 cases, followed by Italy (140.000 cases and 19.000 casualties), China (83.305 cases and 3.345 had died), South Korea (10.156 cases with 177 casualties), the UK (38.168 cases and 3.605 deaths) and Colombia (1.267 cases and 25 deaths). The second part concerned Institution and staff reorganization. In every country all surgical plans have been modified. In Wuhan the staff was enrolled in COVID-units. In New York, the Mount Sinai Health System was in lockdown mode. In South Korea, sterilizing chambers have been placed. In Italy some Departments were reorganized in a Hub and Spoke fashion. In the Latin American region, they adopted special measures for every case. In the UK a conference center has been used to accommodate intensive care unit (ICU) beds. The third part was about neurosurgical practice during the COVID-19 pandemic. In Wuhan the main hospital was used for urgent non-COVID patients. In New York the neurosurgeon staff work in ICU as advanced practitioner (APP). In South Korea every patient is screened. In Italy the on-duty Hub neurosurgeons have been doubled. In the Latin American region recommendations have been developed by some neurosurgical societies. In the UK local non-specialists and traumatologists neurosurgical experts are collaborating in terms of best practice. The final part touched upon how to perform safe surgery and re-start after the pandemic. In China elective surgical procedures are performed very carefully. In New York, surgery planning will be based on patient's viral load. In South Korea and in Italy disinfection plans and negative-pressure O.R. were created. In the Latin American region, the aim is to have a rapid testing system. In the UK they have developed flowcharts to guide trauma patient management. CONCLUSIONS: In general, the pandemic scenario was presented as a thought-provoking challenge in all countries which requires tireless efforts for both maintaining emergency and elective neurosurgical procedures.