BACKGROUND: Human metapneumovirus (HMPV) is a causal agent of acute respiratory infection, especially in primarily children. At the clinical level, HMPV is associated to several diseases including bronchitis, croup, pneumonia, bronchiolitis, reactive airway disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma exacerbations, specifically in children less than 5 years. Here, we carried out a retrospective pilot study, based on the processing of nasopharyngeal swabs, with a focus on the epidemiology and molecular characteristics of HMPV in Senegal. METHODS: This retrospective study was conducted from January 2012 to December 2016. Briefly, all outpatients presenting to healthcare sentinel sites were screened for surveillance enrollment and included if they met criteria for ILI. Naso-oropharyngeal swabs were collected from eligible participants. For viral respiratory pathogens detection, including HMPV, the Anyplex™ II RV16 Detection kit was used. A fragment of the hMPV F gene was targeted for sequencing. RESULTS: In total, 8209 patients with ILI were enrolled. Half of them (49.7%) were children under 5 years. Fever was the most common symptom followed by cough, and rhinitis. Three hundred eight patients were positive for HMPV (3.75%). 89 (28.9%) were detected as single infection. In co-infection cases, the most common co-infecting viruses were influenza, adenovirus and rhinovirus. HMPV detection rates in the different age groups varied significantly with the children under 5 years group accounting for 71.7% of positive patients. The temporal distribution pattern for HMPV infection showed a clear seasonal pattern with a higher activity during the rainy period (July–September). Phylogenetic analyses revealed that HMPV specimens circulating in Senegal were distributed into the two main genetic lineages, A and B. We also noted a co-circulation of both genetic lineages during the whole study period except in 2014. CONCLUSION: In summary, the present study characterized the recent prevalence, seasonality and genetic diversity of HMPV in a large outpatient population presented with ILI in Senegal between 2012 and 2016. Globally our results show a clear seasonal circulation pattern of HMPV in Senegal. Our findings identified children less than 5 years as more susceptible group to HMPV infection. Molecular studies identified A2, B1 and B2 as the major genotypes circulating.