BACKGROUND Several publications have suggested that staple line buttressing might decrease staple line bleeding, increase burst pressure, and decrease the likelihood of acute failure resulting in leak. Currently, permanent and nonpermanent options are available. However, concern has been raised about the permanent buttress material and its potential for delayed strip expulsion. This study analyzed our experience with 3 different buttressing materials for creating the gastric division during laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. METHODS From July 5, 2001 to May 30, 2007, 1451 consecutive patients underwent laparoscopic gastric bypass with buttressing material used for the stapled creation of the gastric pouch. Peristrips Dry (PSDs), permanent bovine pericardial strips, were used in 926 cases from July 5, 2001 to October 11, 2005. Seamguards, a synthetic bioabsorbable product, were used in 145 cases from November 2, 2004 to July 18, 2006, and PSD Veritas, remodelable, nonpermanent bovine pericardial strips, were placed in 380 patients from October 11, 2005 to May 30, 2007. All products were applied to the 60-mm-long, 3.5-mm cartridges of the EndoGIA II stapler. The ease of use, operative complications, visual bleeding, and postoperative leaks were recorded. RESULTS The patient characteristics were comparable for all groups. All products were easy to load on the stapler, and no operative complications related to the use of the buttress materials occurred. The incidence and severity of staple line bleeding was not specifically calculated but was visually noted to be minimal in all cases. Of the 3 groups, 4 contained leaks occurred in the Seamguards group, and all were successfully managed nonoperatively. No acute leaks were discovered in the PSD or PSD Veritas groups. This difference was statistically significant (p <.001). CONCLUSION Neither the PSDs or PSD Veritas group exhibited staple line complications. However, 4 leaks occurred in the patients who had Seamguards incorporated into their gastric pouch linear staple lines.