CLINICAL RELEVANCE Matching contrast injection timing with vessel dynamics significantly improves vessel opacification and reduces contrast dose in the assessment of pulmonary embolism during computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiography. PURPOSE The aim of this study was to investigate opacification of the pulmonary vasculature (PV) during CT pulmonary angiography using a patient-specific contrast formula (PSCF) and exponentially decelerated contrast media (EDCM) injection rate. MATERIALS AND METHODS Institutional review board approved this retrospective study. Computed tomography pulmonary angiography was performed on 200 patients with suspected pulmonary embolism using a 64-channel CT scanner. Patient demographics were equally distributed. Patients were randomly assigned to 2 equal protocol groups: protocol A used a PSCF, and protocol B involved the use of a PSCF combined with EDCM. The mean cross-sectional opacification profile of 8 central and 11 peripheral PVs were measured for each patient, and arteriovenous contrast ratio was calculated. Protocols were compared using Mann-Whitney U nonparametric statistics. Jackknife alternative free-response receiver operating characteristic analyses were used to assess diagnostic efficacy. Interobserver variations were investigated using kappa methods. RESULTS A number of pulmonary arteries demonstrated increases in opacification (P < 0.02) for protocol B compared with A, whereas opacification in all veins was reduced in protocol B (P < 0.03). Subsequently, increased arteriovenous contrast ratio in protocol B compared with A was observed at all anatomic locations (P < 0.0002). An increase in jackknife alternative free-response receiver operating characteristic figure of merit (P < 0.0002) and interobserver variation was observed with protocol B compared with protocol A (κ = 0.3-0.73). Mean contrast volume was reduced in protocol B (29 [4] mL) compared with protocol A (33 [9] mL). Mean effective radiation dose in protocol B (1.2 [0.4] mSv) was reduced by 14% compared with protocol A (1.4 [0.6] mSv). CONCLUSIONS Significant improvements in visualization of the PV can be achieved with a low contrast volume using an EDCM and PSCF. The reduced risk of cancer induction is highlighted.