Alphaviruses (genus Alphavirus; family Togaviridae) are a medically relevant family of viruses that include chikungunya virus, Eastern equine encephalitis virus, and the emerging Mayaro virus. Infectious cDNA clones of these viruses are necessary molecular tools to understand viral biology and to create effective vaccines. The traditional approach to rescuing virus from an infectious cDNA clone requires propagating large amounts of plasmids in bacteria, which can result in unwanted mutations in the viral genome due to bacterial toxicity or recombination and requires specialized equipment and knowledge to propagate the bacteria. Here, we present an alternative to the bacterial-based plasmid platform that uses rolling circle amplification (RCA), an in vitro technology that amplifies plasmid DNA using only basic equipment. We demonstrate that the use of RCA to amplify plasmid DNA is comparable to the use of a midiprepped plasmid in terms of viral yield, albeit with a slight delay in virus recovery kinetics. RCA, however, has lower cost and time requirements and amplifies DNA with high fidelity and with no chance of unwanted mutations due to toxicity. We show that sequential RCA reactions do not introduce mutations into the viral genome and, thus, can replace the need for glycerol stocks or bacteria entirely. These results indicate that RCA is a viable alternative to traditional plasmid-based approaches to viral rescue. Importance The development of infectious cDNA clones is critical to studying viral pathogenesis and for developing vaccines. The current method for propagating clones in bacteria is limited by the toxicity of the viral genome within the bacterial host, resulting in deleterious mutations in the viral genome, which can only be detected through whole-genome sequencing. These mutations can attenuate the virus, leading to lost time and resources and potentially confounding results. We have developed an alternative method of preparing large quantities of DNA that can be directly transfected to recover infectious virus without the need for bacteria by amplifying the infectious cDNA clone plasmid using rolling circle amplification (RCA). Our results indicate that viral rescue from an RCA product produces a viral yield equal to bacterial-derived plasmid DNA, albeit with a slight delay in replication kinetics. The RCA platform, however, is significantly more cost and time-efficient compared to traditional approaches. When the simplicity and costs of RCA are combined, we propose that a shift to an RCA platform will benefit the field of molecular virology and could have significant advantages for recombinant vaccine production.