BACKGROUND: Multimorbid patients have worse outcomes following acute hospitalisation. These include increased mortality as an in-patient and after hospital discharge, and increased morbidity and dependence requiring greater use of care facilities. The literature is unclear on the views and wishes of multimorbid patients regarding the outcomes of acute hospitalisation, specifically regarding survival with additional functional disability following acute illness. This is increasingly relevant, with the recent National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidance on admission to hospital and critical care being based on the presence of comorbidities and function as opposed to numerical age. Objectives: We performed a systematic review to assess the current qualitative literature exploring attitudes, wishes and perspectives of adult patients with multimorbidity on surviving future acute illness and subsequent acquired functional disability. METHODS: Eligibility criteria: Eligible studies addressed the attitudes, wishes and perspectives of multimorbid adults to illness and treatment-acquired disability using qualitative methods. Information sources: A search of PubMed, Embase, and CINAHL databases was conducted from database inception through April 2020. References lists from selected papers and NICE Guidelines on Multimorbidity (NG56) were searched iteratively for additional relevant articles. Review methods: Two researchers reviewed candidate full texts independently. Relevant data was extracted to an evidence table. The risk of bias was avoided by adhering to the previously published extensive search strategy and use of qualitative methodology. RESULTS: From 35606 records of which 6370 were duplicates, 20 full texts were reviewed for inclusion, but none met the eligibility criteria. Coverage of domains of importance to multimorbid adults and those highlighted in the NICE guidelines on multimorbidity (NG56) by the 20 short-listed papers was determined; no publications were found to address all domains. DISCUSSION: No studies were identified which have applied appropriate qualitative methodology to understand the wishes, attitudes, and preferences of multimorbid adults regarding treatment and outcomes of acute illness. Such enquiries need to be urgently undertaken to inform and progress policy and clinical practice relating to decisions around admission to hospital and critical care. OTHER: Funding: National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Research for Patient Benefit grant; NIHR Programme grant; NIHR Doctoral Research Fellowship. Registration: PROSPERO International Prospective Register of systematic reviews (CRD: 42019155028) https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/