BACKGROUND While evidence supports early compared to delayed cholecystectomy as optimal management of acute calculous cholecystitis (ACC), significant variability in practice remains. The purpose of this study was to identify variables associated with early cholecystectomy, to target opportunities to improve adherence to best practices. METHODS Adult patients admitted to surgical units with ACC at two hospitals in a university hospital network between June 2010 and January 2015 were reviewed. Patients with concurrent pancreatitis, cholangitis or severe ACC (with organ system failure) were excluded. Early cholecystectomy was defined as surgery performed during same admission and within 7 days of presentation. Non-operative management was defined as admission for ACC treated conservatively, with or without eventual delayed cholecystectomy. The primary outcome was early cholecystectomy versus initial non-operative management; secondary outcomes included time to cholecystectomy, complications, and total hospital length of stay (LOS). RESULTS A total of 374 patients were included. Two hundred and forty six patients (66%) underwent early cholecystectomy, 60 (16%) were treated non-operatively and had delayed cholecystectomy, and 68 (18%) were only treated non-operatively. Median time to OR from initial presentation was 38 h [22-63] for early cholecystectomy patients and 69 days [29-116] for the non-operative patients who had delayed cholecystectomy. When comparing both groups, early cholecystectomy patients were younger and were treated more often at site 1. There were no differences in complications during hospitalization, but early cholecystectomy patients had a lower median total LOS (3 [2-5] vs. 5 [4-9], p < 0.001), and they had fewer gallstone-related events after discharge (1 vs. 18%, p < 0.001). On multiple logistic regression analysis, lower age, hospital site and lower risk of concurrent choledocholithiasis were all significantly associated with early cholecystectomy (p < 0.05). CONCLUSION Our data supports early cholecystectomy as best practice in management of ACC with no differences in complications during hospitalization, shorter median LOS and fewer gallstone-related events compared to non-operative management. We identified patient and institutional factors associated with early cholecystectomy. This suggests that multiple strategies will be necessary to promote adherence to best practices in the management of ACC within our institution.