Enteric viruses, generally found in sewage, are recognized as the main cause of waterborne and foodborne public health outbreaks. Among leading enteric viruses, the Rotavirus A (RVA) detection in wastewater appeared to be a novel approach to monitor the emergence of these viruses in some countries where the viral gastroenteritis surveillance is almost absent such as in Tunisia. The RVA detection and quantification in an industrial sewage purification plant of Charguia I (Tunis, Tunisia) were achieved to evaluate the performance of activated sludge procedures coupled to a macrofiltration monolamp ultraviolet irradiation type C (UV-C(254)) disinfection reactor. This UV-C(254) system was preceded by a fiberglass cartridge filter system with an average porosity of 45 μm to clarify the water and thus increase its UV transmittance. A total of 140 composite sewage samples was collected from this line of treatment and analyzed for RVA detection. The detection and the viral load quantification of RVA were performed using real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The virological results showed in general that RVA were detected at high frequency of 98% (137/140). In fact, the RVA detection rates at the exit of the two studied wastewater treatment were about 100% at the exit of the activated sludge procedure. It means that all wastewater sampled at this last step of treatment was positive for RVA detection. On the other hand, 92.5% of the wastewater samples taken at the exit of the monolamp UV-C(254) reactor were positive for the RVA. However, the RVA quantification results expressed as viral load showed a significant reduction in the means of RVA viral loads at the exit of the biological activated sludge procedure and the tertiary UV-C(254) treatment, showing in general an improved treated wastewater virological quality. Therefore, the RVA load removal rates recorded at the two successive stages of treatment, the activated sludge and the UV-C(254) treatment, were around 85% and 73%, respectively, as compared to the one with 100% registered for the raw wastewater. In addition, good physical-chemical and bacteriological qualities of the treated sewage were found at the exit of the two considered wastewater treatment procedures. The present investigation represents the first Tunisian environmental report showing the good effectiveness and performance of the biological and the tertiary treatments for RVA removal. Therefore, an improved and an optimized tertiary disinfection treatment was needed since it could be a good means for getting better viral water quality and for minimizing the transmission and dissemination of human infectious viral diseases.