The COVID-19 pandemic has altered medical practice in unprecedented ways. While much of the emphasis in obstetrics and gynecology to date has been on the as yet uncertain impacts of COVID-19 in pregnancy and on changes to surgical management, the pandemic has broad implications for ambulatory gynecologic care as well. In this article we review important ambulatory gynecologic topics including safety and metal health, reproductive life planning, sexually transmitted infections, and routine screening for breast and cervical cancer. For each topic, we review how care may be modified during the pandemic, provide recommendations when possible for how to ensure continued access to comprehensive healthcare at this time, and discuss ways that future practice may change. Social distancing requirements may place patients at higher risk for intimate partner violence and mental health concerns; threaten continued access to contraception and abortion services; impact prepregnancy planning; interrupt routine screening for breast and cervical cancer; increase risk of sexually-transmitted infection acquisition and decrease access to treatment; and exacerbate already underlying racial and minority disparities in care and health outcomes. We advocate for increased use of telemedicine services with increased screening for intimate partner violence and depression using validated questionnaires. Appointments for long-acting contraceptive insertion can be prioritized. Easier access to patient-controlled injectable contraception and pharmacist-provided hormonal contraception can be facilitated. Reproductive healthcare access can be ensured through reducing needs for ultrasound and laboratory testing for certain eligible patients desiring abortion and conducting phone follow-up for medication abortions. Priority for in-person appointments should be given to patients with sexually-transmitted infection symptoms, particularly if at risk for complications, while also offering expedited partner therapy. While routine mammography screening and cervical cancer screening may be safely delayed, we discuss society guideline recommendations for higher-risk populations. There may be an increasing role for patient-collected human papilloma virus self-samples using new cervical cancer screening guidelines that can be expanded in light of the pandemic situation. While the pandemic has strained our healthcare system, it also affords ambulatory clinicians with opportunities to expand care to vulnerable populations in ways that were previously underutilized to attempt to improve health equity.