BACKGROUND Uniportal video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) lobectomy has become a common approach for the treatment of early stage lung cancer. Here, we aimed to establish whether the length of uniportal incision could affect postoperative pain and surgical outcomes in consecutive patients undergoing uniportal VATS lobectomy for early stage lung cancer. METHODS This was a unicenter Randomized Control Trial (NCT03218098). Consecutive patients undergoing uniportal VATS lobectomy for Stage I lung cancer were randomly assigned to a Small Incision group or Long Incision group in 1:1 ratio based on whether patients received a 4 cm or 8 cm incision. The endpoints were to compare the intergroup difference regarding (i) postoperative pain measured by brief pain inventory (BPI) questionnaire (first endpoint); (ii) operative time; (iii) length of chest drainage; (iv) length of hospital stay; (v) postoperative complications; and (vi) pulmonary functional status (secondary endpoints). RESULTS A total of 48 patients were eligible for the study. Four patients were excluded; the study population included 44 patients: 23 within the Small Incision group, and 21 within the Long Incision group. The 11 BPI scores between the two groups showed no significant difference. Small Incision group presented higher operative time than Long Incision group (138.69 vs. 112.14 minutes; P = 0.0001) while no significant differences were found regarding length of hospital stay (P = 0.95); respiratory complications (P = 0.92); FEV1% (P = 0.63), and 6-Minute Walking Test (P = 0.77). CONCLUSIONS A larger incision for uniportal VATS lobectomy significantly reduced the operative time due to better exposure of the anatomical structures without increasing postoperative pain or affecting the surgical outcome. KEY POINTS A larger incision for uniportal VATS lobectomy significantly reduced the operative time due to better exposure of the anatomical structures without increasing postoperative pain or affecting the surgical outcome. To perform a larger incision could be a valuable strategy, particularly in nonexpert hands or when the patient's anatomy or tumor size make exposure of anatomic structures through smaller incisions difficult.