Introduction Exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are often caused by respiratory tract infections. The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical, laboratory and computed tomography features of patients with hospitalized COPD exacerbations in which respiratory viruses were detected using a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. Materials and Methods This retrospectively planned study included patients hospitalized in the chest diseases clinic due to exacerbation of COPD between November 2018-February 2019. The study included patients who had virus-specific real-time PCR, and computed tomography scans of the chest. Result A total of 110 patients were included in the study. Respiratory viruses were identified in the nasopharyngeal swabs of 50 patients (45.5%) using the real-time PCR method, with rhinovirus (25%), influenza A (13.1%) and coronavirus (11.8%) being the most commonly isolated agents. The mean age of the patients was 68.28 ± 9.59 years in the virus-positive group and 68.20 ± 8.27 years in the virus-negative group (p= 0.963). Gender distribution, rate of smokers, exposure to biofuels, blood leukocyte count, neutrophil percentage, C-reactive protein (CRP) level, FEV1/FVC ratio did not significantly differ between the two groups (p> 0.05). Procalcitonin (PCT) and FEV1 values were significantly lower (p= 0.001 and p= 0.028, respectively) and the number of exacerbations was significantly higher in the virus-positive group (p= 0.001). The length of hospital stay was longer in the virus-positive group than in the virus-negative group (p= 0.012). Among the findings of computed tomography (CT) of the chest, bronchial wall thickening, cystic bronchiectasis, and emphysema did not differ significantly (p> 0.05). The rate of infiltrative lesions (tree-in-bud opacity, ground-glass opacity, atypical pneumonia) was significantly higher in the virus-positive group (p= 0.020). Conclusions Viral respiratory tract infections should be considered in hospitalized patients with an exacerbation of COPD who have a history of frequent exacerbations, normal PCT value, and the absence of consolidation in CT scan of the chest. The use of broadspectrum antibiotic therapy should be avoided in patients with these features.