Environmental degradation is a global phenomenon with a high likelihood of influencing human quality of life. Effective management responses are needed to achieve societal goals of sustainability. We develop here a new monitoring protocol (Management Check: MATCH) that comprehensively evaluates management outcomes at the operational level. Using the Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response (DPSIR) framework, we identified pressures influencing ecosystem integrity inside conservation corridors and commercial compartments of a timber production landscape mosaic. They were 1) domestic livestock grazing (the only exogenous pressure), 2) fire management, 3) invasive alien plants (IAPs), and potential soil erosion from two sources: 4) roads, and 5) harvested timber compartments. We assessed the effects of these on wetland and stream buffers. Environmental incidents accounted for more serious management issues (e.g. oil spills). Management responses were systematically unpacked into point-form questions, which formed the building blocks of our monitoring protocol. We assessed management in twelve plantations in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Answers were compared with Best Operational Practice (BOP), and reworked into a Weighted Index of Compliance (WIC) per section. We found that there was poor management of livestock grazing, but good management of IAPs, roads, and timber compartments. Management of wetland and stream buffers was very good. Fire management presented problems linked to lack of direct effects, measurable at the spatial and temporal scales of operations. We discuss operational outcomes within their respective legislative frameworks, and suggest ways of improving management operations, where needed. MATCH is the first monitoring protocol to comprehensively assess environmental management of commercial forestry at the operational level, and to clearly translate operational activities into measurable progress towards strategic goals. In doing so, MATCH breaks down silos and builds bridges for efficient environmental management in dynamic socio-ecological systems. Moreover, the principles developed here can be applied to build tools that help manage major risks in other economic sectors too. Overall, MATCH strengthened strategic and informed action, which is necessary at multiple levels of an organization, to combat major societal risks, such as environmental degradation.