BACKGROUND Laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) surgery is an evolution of laparoscopic surgery aiming at decreasing the patient's parietal trauma associated with abdominal operations. LESS has been found so far to be efficient and have the same good results as the standard four-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. α-Defensins are antimicrobial peptides of the organism. They are the first cell components against pathogens. Cytokines are also mediators in the response to trauma. The aim of this study was to compare the inflammatory reaction in LESS and four-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. METHODS Forty patients with noncomplicated cholelithiasis were randomly assigned into one of two groups. Group A included the patients who would undergo four-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy and group B included the patients who would undergo LESS cholecystectomy. These patients had a BMI < 30, were ASA I or II, and had no previous upper-GI surgery. Blood was taken preoperatively and 6 and 24 h postoperatively. hsCRP (with automated analyzer) and α-defensins (using ELISA) were calculated for each sample. The same postoperative protocol was followed for both groups. Mann-Whitney U test was used to analyze the results. Pain was calculated with a visual analog scale (VAS) for shoulder and abdomen at 6 and 24 h. Hospital stay, nausea, and pain medication needed was noted. RESULTS The α-defensins value was statistically significantly higher in the 24-h samples (P < 0.001) for LESS cholecystectomy. No statistically significant difference was shown for hsCRP, even though P = 0.05 for the 24-h samples with the values of LESS higher. No LESS was converted to a classical laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and none of the patients of either group needed conversion to open cholecystectomy. Pain was statistically significantly less for the LESS group at the 24-h interval (P < 0.0001). Less medication was needed for LESS patients after the 6th postoperative hour (P = 0.007). CONCLUSION Higher inflammatory reaction in LESS cholecystectomy could be the result of greater tension on the tissues. More studies are needed to conclude if this has a significant clinical expression.