OBJECTIVE The use of off-the-shelf stent grafts for thoracic endovascular aortic repair of type A dissections is limited by variability in both the length of the ascending aorta and the location of the proximal intimal tear. This experimental study aimed to assess the feasibility of using a physician-modified thoracic aortic stent graft to treat acute type A dissection by a transapical cardiac approach. METHODS The experiments were performed on six cadaveric human heart, ascending aorta, aortic arch, and descending aorta specimens. Fenestration was fashioned in each standard tubular Valiant thoracic stent graft (Valiant Captivia; Medtronic Vascular, Santa Rosa, Calif) to match the anatomy of each specimen. Stent grafts of sufficient length were selected to cover the entire ascending aorta and aortic arch. Stent graft diameters in proximal sealing zones were oversized by 5% to 10%. The length of the fenestration was the distance between the left subclavian artery and the proximal edge of the origin of the brachiocephalic trunk with an additional 10 mm. The diameter of the scallop was that of the brachiocephalic trunk with an additional 5 mm on all sides. The length of the covered portion of the stent graft was the distance between coronary arteries and the proximal edge of the origin of the brachiocephalic trunk. Two lateral radiopaque markers were positioned to delineate the distal and lateral edge of the scallop. Another 3-cm radiopaque marker was sutured onto the sheath to ensure accurate radiologic positioning of the scallop on the outer curve of the aorta. The left ventricle and the thoracic aorta were connected to a benchtop aortic pulsatile flow model. A 5-mm 30-degree lens was introduced through the left subclavian artery to monitor the procedure. The customized stent graft was deployed by a transapical approach under fluoroscopic control. RESULTS Median duration of stent graft modification was 21 minutes (range, 17-40 minutes). All attempts to deploy the homemade proximal scalloped stent graft by a transapical approach were successful. Completion angiography demonstrated patency of the supra-aortic trunks and of the coronary arteries in all cases. Macroscopic evaluation did not identify any deterioration of the customized stent graft. CONCLUSIONS The use of physician-modified stent grafts is feasible for thoracic endovascular aortic repair of type A dissection by a transapical approach in this model.