Prior to the 1970s, principles involving the fate and transport of hazardous chemicals from either hazardous waste spills or landfills into ground water and/or surface water were not fully understood. In addition, national guidance on proper waste disposal techniques was not well developed. As a result, there were many instances where hazardous waste was not disposed of properly, such as the Love Canal environmental pollution incident. This incident led to the passage of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) of 1976. This act gave the United States Environmental Protection Agency regulatory control of all stages of the hazardous waste management cycle. Presently, numerous federal agencies provide guidance on methods and approaches used to evaluate potential health effects and assess risks from contaminated source media, i.e., soil, air, and water. These agencies also establish standards of exposure or health benchmark values in the different media, which are not expected to produce environmental or human health impacts. The risk assessment methodology is used by various regulatory agencies using the following steps: i) hazard identification; ii) dose-response (quantitative) assessment; iii) exposure assessment; iv) risk characterization. The overall objectives of risk assessment are to balance risks and benefits; to set target levels; to set priorities for program activities at regulatory agencies, industrial or commercial facilities, or environmental and consumer organizations; and to estimate residual risks and extent of risk reduction. The chapter will provide information on the concepts used in estimating risk and hazard due to exposure to ground and surface waters contaminated from the recycling of hazardous waste and/or hazardous waste materials for each of the steps in the risk assessment process. Moreover, this chapter will provide examples of contaminated water exposure pathway calculations as well as provide information on current guidelines, databases, and resources such as current drinking water standards, health advisories, and ambient water quality criteria. Finally, specific examples of contaminants released from recycled hazardous waste materials and case studies evaluating the human health effects due to contamination of ground and surface waters from recycled hazardous waste materials will be provided and discussed.