INTRODUCTION Capsular contracture (CC) is the most common complication of breast implantation, with an incidence of nearly 50% in patients undergoing breast reconstruction with subsequent radiotherapy. Although the move toward submuscular (SM) device placement led to a decreased incidence of CC, subcutaneous (SQ) implantation has seen a resurgence. The purpose of this study was to use a rodent model of breast reconstruction with smooth silicone implants and delayed radiotherapy to assess the occurrence of CC in SQ versus SM implantation. METHODS Custom 2 mL smooth round silicone implants were placed bilaterally into 12 female Sprague Dawley rats that were randomized into 4 groups of 3, with each group differing by implantation plane (SQ vs SM) and irradiation status (irradiated vs nonirradiated). Rats from the SQ group received implants bilaterally underlying the skin on the flank. Rats in the SM groups received implants bilaterally under the latissimus dorsi muscle. Irradiated rats received 20 Gy localized to each implant on postoperative day 10. One rat from each group was imaged with a micro-computed tomography scanner at baseline and at explant 3 months later, whereupon capsules from all rats were examined histologically. RESULTS Rats in the SQ group showed evidence of contracture on gross examination and greater evidence of morphologic disruption per micro-computed tomography scan. There was no evidence of contracture or morphologic disruption in either SM group. Mean ± SD capsule thickness was 39.0 ± 9.0 μm in the SQ versus 37.6 ± 9.8 μm in the SM nonirradiated groups and 43.9 ± 14.9 μm in the SQ versus 34.3 ± 8.3 μm in the SM irradiated groups (all P > 0.05). CONCLUSIONS In a rodent model of smooth silicone breast implantation and delayed radiotherapy, although there did not appear to be differences in capsule thickness regardless of device placement plane, SQ implants demonstrated gross evidence of CC. These data indicate that capsule thickness is only part of a larger pathogenetic picture, which should take into consideration the contribution from all peri-implant tissue.