Spleen cells from uninfected control mice selectively lysed BALB/c 3T3 fibroblasts infected with mouse hepatitis virus (MHV), a murine coronavirus. Lysis of infected cells occurred within 3 hr, and histocompatibility between effector and target cells was not required. This natural, cell-mediated, virus-associated cytotoxicity differed from NK cell- and T cell-mediated lysis. Spleen cells from animals infected with MHV were enriched in NK activity and were more cytotoxic to YAC-1 target cells, but did not show enhanced cytotoxicity for MHV-infected target cells. Spleen cells from beige mice, which are deficient in NK cell activity, were able to lyse MHV-infected target cells, as were spleen cells from nude mice, which are deficient in T cell activity. Lysis of MHV-infected target cells could be mediated by cells from the spleen and, to a lesser extent, by cells from the bone marrow, but not by resident peritoneal cells or thymocytes. We suggest the term "virus killer (VK) activity" for this phenomenon. VK activity of splenocytes from different mouse strains correlated with the ability of the splenocytes to bind purified radiolabeled MHV virions. MHV virions caused agglutination of spleen leukocytes from susceptible mouse strains, indicating that leukocyte agglutination or adsorption may provide a useful assay for coronaviruses such as MHV which lack hemagglutinating activity. SJL mouse splenocytes did not bind MHV and did not lyse infected targets. MHV bound relatively well to splenocytes of other mouse strains, but poorly to thymocytes and erythrocytes. Binding of MHV to leukocytes was not influenced by 6 mM EDTA or EGTA, indicating a lack of requirement for Mg++ or Ca++. VK activity was also resistant to EDTA and EGTA, in contrast to NK activity, which was sensitive to those chelating agents. VK activity was also unaffected by actinomycin D, cycloheximide, or puromycin, indicating that new protein synthesis was not required for lysis. Antibody to interferon-alpha/beta did not block lysis, nor was there substantially enhanced lysis mediated by leukocytes from mice infected with virus and thus exposed to high levels of interferon. VK activity was blocked by antibody directed against the peplomeric glycoprotein E2 of MHV. VK activity required infected target cells, because cells with adsorbed MHV virions were not lysed by splenocytes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)