OBJECTIVE To provide a reference for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) inter-hospital transport during coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), based on the transport experience of 6 patients with severe H1N1 influenza virus pneumonia using ECMO. METHODS Clinical data of patients with severe H1N1 influenza virus pneumonia implemented by ECMO in the First Affiliated Hospital of Wannan Medical College from October 2018 to December 2019 were retrospective analyzed, including general information, ECMO transport distance, time, clinical parameters before and after ECMO, including the patients' oxygenation index (PaO2/FiO2), respiratory rate (RR), pulse blood oxygen saturation (SpO2), arterial blood carbon dioxide partial pressure (PaCO2), and pH value, various complications during transport, mechanical ventilation time, patients' prognosis and other indicators. Experience from the aspects of personal protection, transport process and equipment, team cooperation, mid-transit monitoring, quality control, etc., was summarized to provide suggestions for patients with severe COVID-19 using ECMO during inter-hospital transport and protection. RESULTS A total of 6 patients with severe H1N1 influenza virus pneumonia were transported on ECMO. All patients were transported to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the First Affiliated Hospital of Wannan Medical College by the ECMO transport team after the establishment of ECMO in the local hospital. The transfer distance was 11 to 197 km, with an average of (93.8±58.6) km; the transfer time was 30 to 150 minutes, with an average of (79.2±40.6) minutes. Two patients experienced a drop in ECMO flow and SpO2 during the process, and the main reason was insufficient volume, which was improved after fluid resuscitation and posture adjustment. All patients maintained SpO2 above 0.93. Six patients survived and were discharged. ECMO assisted time was 4-9 days, with an average of (6.5±1.5) days; mechanical ventilation time was 7-24 days, and median time was 10.0 (8.0, 14.5) days. No H1N1 transmission occurred in medical personnel. To achieve good therapeutic effect, the main experience was to choose the proper timing and mode of ECMO; intact transportation vehicles and equipment to reduce or avoid mechanical complications; the effective management of respiration and circulation during the transportation to avoid ventilation-associated lung injury (VALI) and serious hypoxemia; the appropriate space for the transfer team to quickly handle various critical situations; and personal protection to avoid infection. CONCLUSIONS With an experienced ECMO transport team, good transport equipment, comprehensive protection measures, reasonable transport procedures, and a perfect emergency plan, it is safe to use ECMO transport for COVID-19 patients.