BACKGROUND The main objective of this review is to assess the effects of aerobic, resistance, and meditative movement exercise on sleep quality in patients with unipolar depression. A secondary goal is to ascertain the effects on sleep duration, sleepiness, daytime functioning, use of hypnotics, and adverse events. METHODS A systematic computerized search will be performed in the following online databases: PubMed, EMBASE (on Ovid), Cochrane Library, PsycINFO (on Ovid), SPORTDiscus (on EBSCOhost), CINHAL (on EBSCOhost), Clinicaltrials.gov , WHO International Clinical Trials Registry, OpenGrey, and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses. Bibliographies of all included studies as well as any other relevant reviews identified via the search will be screened. Randomized trials using aerobic, resistance, or meditative movement exercise interventions which target sleep as a primary or secondary outcome will be included. The primary outcome will be differences in sleep quality at post-intervention. Secondary outcomes will be adverse events, differences in sleep duration, daytime sleepiness and functioning, and the use of hypnotics at post-intervention. Two authors will independently screen the identified records. Disagreement will be resolved by consensus or if no consensus can be reached by adjudication of a designated third reviewer. Data extraction will be done independently by two authors using a standardized and piloted data extraction sheet. Bias in individual studies will be assessed using the revised Cochrane risk of bias tool. The certainty of evidence across all outcomes will be evaluated using the CINeMA (Confidence in Network Meta-Analysis) framework. A frequentist network meta-analysis will be conducted. The systematic review and network meta-analysis will be presented according to the PRISMA for Network Meta-Analyses (PRISMA-NMA) guideline. DISCUSSION This systematic review and network meta-analysis will provide a synthesis of the currently available evidence concerning the effects of aerobic, resistance, and meditative movement exercises on sleep in patients with unipolar depression. Thereby, we hope to accelerate the consolidation of evidence and inform decision-makers on potential benefits and harms. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION The protocol has been registered at the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO; registration number: CRD42019115705).