OBJECTIVE To investigate the clinical effect of treating mallet finger deformity using a modified palmaris longus tendon graft through a bone tunnel. METHODS Altogether, 21 patients with mallet finger deformity (16 men, 5 women; average age 31 years, range 19-47 years) were treated with a modified palmaris longus tendon graft through a bone tunnel during 18 months (2014-2016). Four index fingers, seven middle fingers, eight ring fingers, and two little fingers were treated for four cutting injuries, eleven finger sprains, four crush injuries, and two twist injuries (7 open and 14 closed injuries). Duration from injury to surgery was 9 h to 13 weeks. Three patients underwent surgery after 6 weeks of unsuccessful conservative treatment. No tendon was attached to the extensor tendon insertion in 16 patients, and 5 had residual tendon of <0.2 cm attached. All patients had distal segment flexion deformity and dorsiflexion disorder. Surgery comprised transverse penetration and vertical drilling of the base of the distal phalanx (2.0 and 2.5 mm diameter drills). Equal shallow semitendinosus pieces of the palmaris longus tendon (4 cm) were obtained from the sagittal end and were passed through a dorsal bone hole, emerging from a transverse bone hole. The two bundles were sutured to the main tendon. Tension was adjusted, and the broken ends were sutured. The distal interphalangeal joints were fixed in hyperextension. RESULTS All patients were followed for 7-16 months (average 6.0 ± 0.3 months) postoperatively. All 21 patients had grade A wound healing, with no complications (e.g., necrotic wound, recurrence, joint stiffness). The mallet finger deformity was corrected with good appearance, no obvious abnormalities, and satisfactory flexion and extension. Two patients had a superficial wound infection. Each recovered after symptomatic treatment. One patient had a mild result, with limited extension. There were no recurrences. Results were evaluated according to Patel et al.'s system, which revealed 15 excellent and 5 good results (combined 95.23% rate), with 1 mild result (limited extension). Patients were satisfied with the appearance and function of the affected fingers, and the desired surgical end result was achieved. CONCLUSION Use of this modified surgery for treating mallet finger deformity, especially with no or little tendon attached at the extensor tendon insertion, results in nearly anatomical reconstruction of the extensor tendon insertion. Its advantages include simple surgery, reliable fixation, fewer complications, and clinical efficacy.