BACKGROUND Peri-operative hypothermia and shivering are frequent events in patients during caesarean delivery under spinal anaesthesia. OBJECTIVE We assessed the efficacy of combined pre-anaesthetic forced-air warming in combination with warmed intravenous fluid infusion for preventing hypothermia and shivering during caesarean delivery under spinal anaesthesia. DESIGN A randomised controlled study. SETTING A tertiary care teaching hospital from July 2017 to April 2018. PATIENTS A total of 50 pregnant women, American Society of Anaesthesiologists physical status 2, aged 20 to 45 years, scheduled for caesarean delivery under spinal anaesthesia. INTERVENTION Patients were enrolled and randomised into two groups: an active warming group (n = 25), which received combined pre-anaesthetic whole body forced-air warming for 15 min and prewarmed intravenous fluids, and a control group, which received no active warming or warmed fluids (C group; n = 25). Spinal anaesthesia was induced with 10 mg bupivacaine containing fentanyl (10 μg). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Tympanic membrane temperature and shivering severity were measured at baseline and every 10 min during surgery, and then every 10 min for 1 h postoperatively. Neonatal outcomes (tympanic membrane temperature at birth, umbilical venous blood pH, Apgar score) were also recorded. RESULTS The incidences of peri-operative hypothermia (0 vs. 48%, P < 0.001) and shivering (22 vs. 52%, P = 0.031) were significantly lower in the active warming than in the C group. The maximum temperature change was also significantly lower in the active warming than in the C group. Maternal thermal comfort scores were higher in the active warming than in the C group. Neonatal parameters were not significantly different between the groups. CONCLUSION The combination of pre-anaesthetic forced-air warming and warmed intravenous fluid infusions appears to be effective for preventing hypothermia and shivering during caesarean delivery under spinal anaesthesia. TRIAL REGISTRATION This trial was registered with Clinical Trials.gov (identifier: NCT03256786).