The resuscitation of the injured patient continues to be a highly debated topic. Multiple studies have been performed with the intent to determine the optimal strategy to combat, and ultimately prevent, trauma induced coagulopathy. This chapter discusses the risks and benefits of resuscitation protocols utilizing plasma. Plasma is the aqueous portion of blood that contains coagulation factors, fibrinolytic proteins, albumin, immunoglobulins, and up to 6000 other proteins. Multiple methods of collection and storage have been developed, each one affecting the plasma and its proteins differently. Once collected, plasma can be frozen for storage. If frozen within 8 h, the product is labelled as fresh frozen plasma (FFP). If frozen more than 6 h, but less than 24 h, it is labelled as plasma frozen within 24 h (FP24). When FFP and FP24 are mobilized from the blood bank, they are thawed in a water bath to create thawed plasma (TP) which can be stored in liquid form for up to 4 days prior to transfusion. Liquid plasma (LQP) is derived from whole blood and is never frozen. It can be stored for up to 30 days by some reports prior to transfusion. Each of these forms of plasma has been extensively studied for efficacy of coagulation and are all useful in the resuscitation of a traumatically injured patient. There is much more than coagulation factors in plasma that are useful to patients. Studies looking at the endotheliopathy associated with hemorrhagic shock have shown a decrease in the inflammatory response, promotion of endothelial repair, and decreased edema. Transfusion protocols utilizing plasma at the time of presentation have shown a decrease in the amount of blood products transfused, as well as an improvement in mortality. Transfusion ratios of platelets–red blood cells–plasma units in a 1:1:1 ratio have shown a significant improvement in mortality at 3 h post-admission over 1:1:2. There has not been an increase in the incidence of adverse events with the increase usage of plasma. The early administration of plasma to the massively hemorrhaging traumatically injured patient improves mortality, decreases total blood product usage, and promotes the resolution of trauma induced endotheliopathy without increasing adverse events.