RATIONALE & OBJECTIVE Maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) patients are a population highly vulnerable to infection with SARS-CoV-2. The current study was designed to evaluate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection based on both nucleic acid testing (NAT) and antibody testing in Chinese MHD patients. STUDY DESIGN Cross-sectional study. SETTING & PARTICIPANTS From Dec 1, 2019 to Mar 31, 2020, 1027 MHD patients in five large hemodialysis centers in Wuhan, China were enrolled. Patients were screened by blood tests, chest computed tomography, NAT and antibody tests for SARS-CoV-2. EXPOSURE NAT and antibody tests for SARS-CoV-2. OUTCOMES Morbidity, clinical features, laboratory and radiologic findings. ANALYTICAL Approach Differences between groups were examined by Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney U test, comparing those not infected to those infected and comparing those with infection detected by NAT to with positive serology tests and negative NAT. RESULTS Of the 1027 MHD patients, 99 cases have been identified as SARS-CoV-2 infection, equivalent to a prevalence of 9.6%. In the 99 cases, 52 (53%) patients were diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 infection by positive NAT; 47 (48%) patients were identified by positive IgG or IgM antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 with negative NAT. The spectrum of antibody profiles in these 47 patients showed IgM antibodies in 5 (11%), IgG antibodies in 35 (75%), and both positive IgM and IgG antibodies in 7 (15%). 51% of the infected patients were asymptomatic during the epidemic. Patients with hypertensive kidney disease were more often identified with infection by SARS-CoV-2 infection and they tended to be more symptomatic than other patient groups. LIMITATIONS Possibility of false positives and false negatives for both NAT and antibody testing; possible lack of generalizability to other dialysis populations. CONCLUSIONS Half of the SARS-CoV-2 infections in MHD patients were subclinical and unidentified by universal chest CT and selective NAT. Serologic testing may help to evaluate the overall prevalence and understand the diversity of clinical course among MHD patients infected with SARS-CoV-2.