BACKGROUND We introduced single-incision transabdominal preperitoneal (S-TAPP) herniorrhaphy (described herein) at our institution in June 2010. We recently conducted a retrospective study to assess the feasibility and safety of the procedure. METHODS The study involved 182 patients (159 men, 23 women) who underwent S-TAPP herniorrhaphy between June 2010 and February 2015 for 202 groin hernias (162 unilateral hernias, 20 bilateral hernias). We examined patient characteristics, hernia type and presentation, operation time, conversion to another repair procedure, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative pain, morbidities, and postoperative hospital stay. We further evaluated operation time and morbidity by comparison between cases of simple unilateral hernia and cases of complicated unilateral hernia, which was defined as (1) a recurrent hernia, (2) hernia following radical prostatectomy, or (3) an incarcerated omental or bowel hernia. RESULTS Five types of hernia were treated: indirect inguinal, direct inguinal, femoral, combined inguinal, and other (a urinary bladder hernia). Operation time was 92.5 ± 29.1 min for the unilateral hernias and 135.7 ± 24.5 min for the bilateral hernias. No major bleeding occurred. Postoperative pain was short-lived and easily managed. Overall morbidity was 8.2% (15/182 patients), and only one postoperative complication (recurrence) required surgical intervention (repeat S-TAPP). Average postoperative stay was 6.7 ± 2.6 days. Two patients experienced numbness in the outer thigh, but this resolved naturally. One superficial surgical site infection developed and was easily treated. Operation times were greater for the complicated vs. simple hernias, but the time differed significantly (p = 0.02) only between radical prostatectomy-associated hernia and simple hernia. No complicated hernia required conversion to traditional laparoscopic repair, but in simple unilateral hernia group one conversion to traditional laparoscopic repair was required for difficulties encountered in the dissection of the large indirect inguinal hernia sac. The incidence of seroma was higher, though not statistically, in the complicated (n = 3) vs. simple hernia group. CONCLUSIONS S-TAPP repair of groin hernia was shown to be a feasible, safe procedure. The advantages are well understood, and further studies are warranted to confirm the long-term benefits suggested by our study.