Background Coronavirus is causing a shortage of critical inhalers needed by patients with Asthma and respiratory illness. Patients with Asthma are at higher risk if they tract the novel Coronavirus. As the coronavirus continues to spread, hospitals are turning to use more salbutamol MDI. Salbutamol MDI has become the line of defence for physicians in the emergency room who are treating patients with Corona Virus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) and have respiratory distress .[Hui et al 2020 ,and Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 2020] During the COVID pandemic, there has been a drastic increase in the use of MDI inhalers; therefore, it led to a decrease in availability and a break in the supply chain. Patients with Asthma are at higher risk if they tract the novel Coronavirus, and an inhaler could be a life or death for them. As the coronavirus continues to spread, hospitals are turning to use more salbutamol Metered Dose inhaler (MDI). Salbutamol MDI is now on short supply as the COVID-19 continues to spread. Salbutamol MDI has become the line of defence for physicians in the emergency room who are treating patients with COVID-19 and have respiratory distress. The current shortage of salbutamol MDI could be a result of stockpiling and hoarding of this life-saving inhaler. That had led to a critical shortage of Salbutamol MDI, and even the case shortage continues with some other alternatives such as Ipratropium MDI and even with long-acting B-agonists such as Salmeterol and Formoterol which also starting to have a limitation on ordering these agents. Coronavirus sparks fear of medication shortage. Coronavirus panic-buying also may have led to a shortage of critical inhalers. We have also got elderly patients with COPD who may need Ventolin MDI and also premature babies who may have caught Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) and need salbutamol MDI to support their lungs have since been compromised, and they rely heavily on Asthma inhalers. Finding a safe and creative strategy is essential during the COVID-19 pandemic.