An immunohistochemistry technique was developed using fixed tissues to study the presence and location of transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) antigens in situ. Experimentally infected gnotobiotic and conventional pigs as well as pigs with natural TGEV infection were examined. The staining technique was based on detection of the major structural protein of TGEV, the nucleocapsid, by using a pool of 3 monoclonal antibodies. Formalin and periodate-lysine-paraformaldehyde (PLP)-fixed intestinal tissues from a gnotobiotic pig inoculated with virulent TGEV were used to determine optimal antibody concentrations and incubation times. The intestinal tissues remained in their respective fixatives for 6 months, and serial sections were removed at sequential times and embedded in paraffin blocks. PLP and 10% neutral buffered formalin were acceptable fixatives and preserved TGEV nucleocapsid antigenicity for up to 6 months. Formalin, in comparison with PLP as a fixative, was better for preserving original tissue morphology and provided better antigen detection. Conventional crossbred pigs were inoculated with virulent TGEV, and animals were euthanized on various postexposure days. Intestinal tissues were positive for TGEV nucleocapsid antigens on postexposure days 2, 4, and 8. The immunohistochemistry technique detected TGEV antigen in stored paraffin-embedded tissues from 14 naturally infected pigs previously confirmed as positive for TGEV using a direct immunofluorescence assay on intestinal mucosal smears, whereas 9 naturally infected pigs confirmed negative for TGEV antigen by the same immunofluorescence assay showed no staining consistent with the presence of TGEV antigen. Immunohistochemistry provides a method to detect TGEV and possibly other closely related coronaviruses such as porcine respiratory coronavirus in situ. A diagnostic test using the same fixed tissues processed for histopathology provides veterinary practitioners an alternative to delivering live pigs or refrigerated fresh intestinal samples containing infectious virus to a diagnostic laboratory. Investigators can utilize this technique to retrospectively screen fixed tissues for TGEV antigen.