BACKGROUND Transvaginal video-assisted cholecystectomy (TVC) has so far not been prospectively evaluated using an internationally recognized health-related quality of life (HRQoL) assessment. We report the results of a prospectively studied cohort of patients with clinical and quality of life data. METHODS Prospectively controlled study of 128 patients undergoing TVC and 147 patients with conventional laparoscopic cholecystectomy (CLC). Data reported include patient demography, body mass index, anesthetic risk score (ASA), laboratory data, surgical times, length of hospital stay, pain score, analgesic medication used, complications, and quality of life scores using the combined method of SF-36 and GIQoL. RESULTS Ninety-five TVC and 96 CLC patients fully completed pre- and postoperative HRQoL questionnaires. Patients with incomplete or missing questionnaires were excluded as well as patients with signs of acute cholecystitis. Differences included cardiovascular comorbidity and previous surgical procedures, but there was no difference in age (p = 0.4), body mass index (p = 0.4), ASA grade (p = 0.4), or preoperative quality of life. No difference was seen in laboratory data, surgical times, or length of hospital stay. Pain score and analgesic medication showed a clear trend and significant differences in favor of TVC. There was no difference in complications. Quality of life and postoperative sexual function did not show any differences between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS This is the first study to report HRQoL outcomes after TVC using a recognized combined HRQoL assessment method. Although differences do exist in patient comorbidity and previous surgical experience, both groups were comparable. Less postoperative pain and no difference in HRQoL in TVC patients underlines this new procedure as a feasible standard approach in female patients. This study also is the first to differentiate between acute cholecystitis and symptomatic cholecystolithiasis in patients undergoing TVC.