OBJECTIVE To review the advances in clinically useful molecular biologic techniques and to identify their applications, as presented at the 12th Annual William Beaumont Hospital DNA Symposium. DATA SOURCES The 7 manuscripts submitted were reviewed and their major findings were compared with literature on the same or related topics. STUDY SELECTION Manuscripts address the use of molecular techniques in the detection of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and bacterial ribosome mutations, which may lead to ribosome-targeted drug resistance; pharmacogenomics as a clinical laboratory service and example of warfarin dosing using CYP2C9 mutation analysis; definition of the potential of cytosine arabinoside incorporation into DNA to disrupt transcription using an in vitro model of oligonucleotides; use of laser capture microdissection to isolate solid tumor cells free of nontumor cells; and molecular methods used to classify lymphomas. DATA SYNTHESIS Two current issues related to the use of molecular tests in the clinical laboratories are (1) decentralization of molecular-based testing to a variety of nonmolecular laboratories and (2) need for wider acceptance of molecular-based testing through its incorporation in clinical practice guidelines. Molecular methods have had a major impact on infectious disease through the rapid identification of new infectious agents, SARS, and the characterization of drug resistance. Pharmacogenomics identifies the genetic basis for heritable and interindividual variation in response to drugs. The incorporation of the nucleoside analog, cytosine arabinoside, into DNA leads to local perturbation of DNA structure and reduces the ability of transcription factors to bind to their specific DNA binding elements as measured by electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Laser capture microdissection of tumor cells can provide an adequate number of cells for whole genome amplification. Gene expression microassay profiles of various lymphomas have modified classification systems and predict prognosis and response to therapy. CONCLUSIONS The current -omics era will continue to emphasize the use of microarrays and database software for genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic screening to search for a useful clinical assay. The number of molecular pathologic techniques will expand as additional disease-associated mutations are defined.