The recent pandemic of COVID19 that has struck the world is yet to be battled by a potential cure. Countless lives have been claimed due to the existing pandemic and the societal normalcy has been damaged permanently. As a result, it becomes crucial for academic researchers in the field of bioinformatics to combat the existing pandemic. The study involved collecting the virulent strain sequence of SARS-nCoV19 for the country USA against human host through publically available bioinformatics databases. Using in-silica analysis and reverse vaccinology, two leader proteins were identified to be potential vaccine candidates for development of a multi-epitope drug. The results of this study can provide further researchers better aspects and direction on developing vaccine and immune responses against COVID19. This work also aims at promoting the use of existing bioinformatics tools to faster streamline the pipeline of vaccine development. The Situation of COVID19 A new infection respiratory disease was first observed in the month of December 2019, in Wuhan, situated in the Hubei province, China. Studies have indicated that the reason of this disease was the emergence of a genetically-novel coronavirus closely related to SARS-CoV. This coronavirus, now named as nCoV-19, is the reason behind the spread of this fatal respiratory disease, now named as COVID-19. The initial group of infections is supposedly linked with the Huanan seafood market, most likely due to animal contact. Eventually, human-to-human interaction occurred and resulted in the transmission of the virus to humans. [13]. Since then, nCoV-19 has been rapidly spreading within China and other parts of World. At the time of writing this article (mid-March 2020), COVID-19 has spread across 146 countries. A count of 164,837 cases have been confirmed of being diagnosed with COVID-19, and a total of 6470 deaths have occurred. The cumulative cases have been depicting a rising trend and the numbers are just increasing. WHO has declared COVID-19 to be a “global health emergency”. [14]. Current Scenario and Objectives Currently, research is being conducted on a massive level to understand the immunology and genetic characteristics of the disease. However, no cure or vaccine of nCoV-19 has been developed at the time of writing this article. Though, nCoV-19 and SARS-CoV are almost genetically similar, the respiratory syndrome caused by both of them, COVID-19 and SARS respectively, are completely different. Studies have indicated that – “SARS was more deadly but much less infectious than COVID-19”. -World Health Organization