BACKGROUND/AIM Pathogen inactivation in blood and blood products is one of the major means to achieve a zero risk blood supply and improve transfusion safety. Riboflavin (vitamin B2) activated by ultraviolet (UV) light, produces active oxygen which damages cell membrane and prevents replication of the carrier of diseases (viruses, bacteria, protozoa) in all blood products. The aim of this study was to establish the influence of the process of pathogens photoinactivation using riboflavin and UV rays on the biochemical and functional characteristics of platelet concentrates prepared from "buffy coat". METHODS The examination included 80 platelet concentrates prepared from "buffy coat", which was separated from whole blood donated by voluntary blood donors around 6 hours from the moment of collection. Concentrates were pooled, filtered and separated unton two groups: one consisted of 10 control units and the other of 10 examined units (pooled platelet concentrates). Examined units of the platelets were treated by riboflavin (35 mL) and UV rays (6.24 J/mL, 265-370 nm) on Mirasol aparature (Caridian BCT Biotechnologies, USA) in approximate duration of 6 min. A total of 35 mL of saline solution was added to the control units. The samples for examining were taken from the control and examined units initially (K0, I0), after the addition of saline (K1) and riboflavin (I1), after illumination (I2), first day of storage (K3, I3) and the fifth day of storage (K4, I4). The following parameters were measured: platelet count and platelet yield, residual erythrocyte and leukocyte count, pH, pO2, pCO2 and bacterial contamination. RESULTS All the measured parameters showed a statistically significant decrease comparing to K0 and I0; all the results of the first day of platelet storage showed statistically significant decrease comparing to K1 and I1, and all the results of the fifth day of platelet storage (K4, I4) showed a statistically significant decrease comparing to K1 and K3 and to I1 and I3. There was no the mentioned difference in the measured parameters between K4 and I4 (the end of storage--the fifth day). All the platelet units were sterile till the seventh day, when the investigation ended. CONCLUSION Platelet concentrates inactivated by riboflavin and UV rays (Mirasol PRT sistem, Caridian BCT, USA) keep all the characteristics assessed by the Guide to the preparation, use and quality assurance of blood components (Council of Europe), during the whole storage period (five days). The obtained data were correlated with existing up to date literature and demonstrated that Mirasol treated platelets were safe and could be incorporated effectively in the routine blood bank and transfusion setting.