STUDY OBJECTIVE To report a single surgeon's experience with 120 laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) procedures using conventional laparoscopic instruments and a homemade glove port system to treat benign gynecologic diseases. DESIGN Retrospective chart analysis (Canadian Task Force classification III). SETTING Eulji University Hospital. PATIENTS One hundred twenty patients who underwent LESS performed by a single surgeon to treat benign gynecologic diseases between November 2010 and November 2012. INTERVENTION LESS using conventional instrumentation was performed using our specialized glove port technique, which consists of the combination of the homemade glove port system designed to minimalize collision of the trocar on the tip of the finger of the surgical glove, a sufficient rectus fasciotomy, the surgeon's position at the patient's head, and adequate positioning of the instruments. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS The LESS procedures performed were laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy (n = 50), ovarian cystectomy (n = 25), myomectomy (n = 14), oophorectomy (n = 11), salpingectomy (n = 9), fimbrioplasty or neosalpingstomy (n = 7), and adhesiolysis only (n = 4). Median patient age was 40 years, and median body mass index was 23. Median operative time was 100 minutes (range, 50-145 minutes) for laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy, 70 minutes (range, 30-150 minutes) for ovarian cystectomy, 107 minutes (range, 65-180 minutes) for myomectomy, 55 minutes (range, 25-130 minutes) for oophorectomy, 85 minutes (range, 35-110 minutes) for salpingectomy, 70 minutes (range, 25-140 minutes) for neosalpingostomy or fimbrioplasty, and 35 minutes (range, 30-60-minutes) for adhesiolysis only. All procedures were completed successfully without the need for additional ports or conversion to the standard laparoscopic approach. One perioperative complication occurred. The complication rate was 83% (1 of 120). Other postoperative complications were not observed at follow-up. CONCLUSION Our experience shows that LESS using conventional laparoscopic instruments and our glove port technique is a feasible and safe technique for the surgical management of various gynecologic conditions. Therefore, our homemade glove port laparoscopic system used in our specialized technique provides a simple, cost-effective approach to LESS and would probably make laparoscopic procedures using conventional instruments easier.