Liquorice is a perennial, temperate-zone herb or subshrub, native of India, Pakistan and southern Europe; also cultivated in England, Belgium, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Greece, Turkey, Russia, South Africa, Egypt, Syria and Iraq. It has also been grown experimentally in the United States. Ancient historical manuscripts from China, India and Greece mention its use for symptoms of viral respiratory tract infections and hepatitis. The plant has also been described by Theophrastus. Licorice from Egypt has been described to be the best, followed by from Iraq and Syria; the root should be decorticated before use. It concocts viscid humours in diseases of liver, bladder and lungs, and expectorates them. It has been used in Iranian herbal medicine for skin eruptions, including dermatitis, eczema, pruritus and cysts, and for treatment of stomach disorders including peptic ulcers. The herb extract inhibits gastric motility in vivo, which is regarded to be an important aspect for its antiulcer activity. Licorice possesses both anti-inflammatory and antiulcer activities; whereas most anti-inflammatory agents are ulcerogenic. Former German Commission E believed it to be effective in the treatment of atopic dermatitis. Licorice root has been used for years to regulate gastrointestinal function in TCM, has been used for generations as an antidote, demulcent, and elixir in folk medicine of China, and is the most commonly used crude drug in Kampo Medicines, the Japanese form of modified TCM, for the treatment of peptic ulcer. Roots contain glycyrrhizin, the main water-soluble constituent that is 50× sweeter than sugar, 2-β-glucuronosyl glucuronic acid, and isoliquiritigenin-4-glucoside. Glycyrrhizin is a nonhemolytic saponin with foaming property, and one of the most potent hydroxyl radical scavengers. No significant effect of deglycyrrhizinised liquorice was observed on gastric ulcer in an RCT of British patients. Treatment of healthy men with licorice for one-week decreased salivary testosterone values by 26% but no significant decrease in free testosterone, and nine healthy women treated with licorice daily for two cycles, had their mean total serum testosterone decreased by 37% at the end of 2nd month. This property could be useful as an adjunct therapy of hirsutism and PCOS.