OBJECTIVE To investigate the effects of different acupuncture manipulations on Deqi sensations and surface myoelectricity, and explore the correlation between Deqi sensations and needling manipulations. METHODS Forty-five healthy participants accepted twirling, lifting-thrusting, and twirling plus lifting-thrusting manipulanions at right Zusanli (ST 36), respectively. The acupuncturist's and participants' Deqi sensations were collected by MGH Acupuncture Sensation Scale (MASS). The intensity and occurrence rate of soreness, dull pain, pressure, heaviness, fullness, numbness, sharp pain, warmth, coolness, and throbbing feelings of participants, and tightness, smooth, and tangle feelings of acupuncturist were measured. The correlation between the acupuncturist's and participant's Deqi sensations was analyzed. Surface electromyogram (EMG) were recorded before, during and after needling in 30 participants. The integrated EMG (iEMG), mean power frequency (MPF) and media frequency (MF) were analyzed. RESULT Both fullness and soreness of participants and tightness of acupuncturist were the most frequently occurred ones. A positive correlation between participants' fullness and acupuncturist's tightness was observed during the three aforementioned needling manipulations (P<0.05, OR>1). Almost all the needling sensations measured in the present study could be induced by the three needling manipulations. However, strength of Deqi sensations was exhibited as lifting-thrusting > twirling plus lifting-thrusting > twirling according to MASS index. The iEMG values were increased and MPF, MF values were decreased during needling compaired to those before needling, especially during lifting-thrusting (P<0.01). CONCLUSIONS The intensity and occurrence rate of the different Deqi sensations induced by different needling manipulations were basically similar. The fullness and soreness were both the most frequently induced Deqi sensations. The strongest Deqi sensation could be induced by lifting-thrusting manipulation. There is a positive correlation between participants' fullness and acupuncturist's tightness during the three needling manipulations. The myoelectricity around the acupoint is related to Deqi responses. (Registration No. AMCTR-IOR-20000314).